MATT: Hello everyone and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons.
(whooping and cheering)
MATT: Anyway! Before we hop into tonight's
episode, we have some quick announcements to get
through so bear with us. First and foremost, we
have our fantastic friends of old returning to
cosponsor tonight's episode: our friends at
Backblaze.
SAM: That's right, Backblaze-- Is the camera on
me? The camera is on me! Backblaze, guys, you know
them. Backblaze backs up all of your data, movies,
music, video, cosplay designs, character sheets,
fanart, more for just five dollars a month--
MARISHA: Five dollars?
SAM: I use the service. No gimmicks. No add-ons.
No gotchas. Works on Mac and PC. They also have
the option to restore by mail. Backblaze will send
you a physical hard drive! Yes and it is hardcore.
I don't know. They backed up over 35 billion
files. They're legit. Go to
backblaze.com/criticalrole to check it out. Start
your free trial now and let them know you're
coming from our show. This will also, this is the
important part, be Backblaze's last sponsorship
for a while. It's a little bittersweet so please,
if you're are going to go show them some love, now
is the time to do it. Go to
backblaze.com/criticalrole. Yev, our fantastic
friend from Backblaze, wanted to say thanks to the
entire cast and crew for being so awesome and
welcoming and a very special thanks to me, Sam,
for all the effort I put into the ad reads. Aww.
So to thank him, I wrote two songs. I'll only sing
one but I'm going to give it to the cast-- the
cast can decide which one. Do you want to hear
Spice Girls or Golden Girls?
LAURA and TALIESIN: Golden Girls.
TRAVIS, MARISHA, and LIAM: Spice Girls.
TRAVIS: Matt's going to decide it.
TALIESIN: Contentious.
MATT: Oh, this is really bad.
SAM: You're going to roll for it?
MATT: Yeah, I'm going to roll for it. All right,
if it's one to ten: Golden Girls. 11 to 20: Spice
Girls. That's going to be Golden Girls.
SAM: Okay. (singing to the tune of "Thank You for
Being a Friend") Thank you for being our Yev.
Backed up all my shit again and again. Your app is
true. You're a pal and you pay for our show. And
if I nuked my laptop, viruses fill the whole thing
up with porn. I would see you and you'd send my
hard drive back to me and the card attached would
say, "Thank you being our Yev."
LAURA: We love you, Yev.
TRAVIS: Much love Backblaze.
MATT: Much love, Yev and all our friends at
Backblaze and our fantastic returning sponsor for
this evening as well, our friends at D&D Beyond.
In case you missed it, they've launched their new
show, "Heroes of the Vale". We talked about it
last week a bit. DMed by the fantastic Mike
Mearls, designer of Dungeons & Dragons Fifth
Edition at Wizard of the Coast, amongst some of
the great members of the team. He is DMing his own
world, Nentir Vale. I'm familiar with it from
fourth edition. It's actually a really cool world.
An amazing cast-- friend of the show TJ Storm,
Todd Kenreck, friend of ours at D&D Beyond, Shelly
Mazzanoble, a bunch of other amazing people on the
show. Check it out. I think their second episode
just went up recently, which is awesome. It's
every Wednesday at 2pm Pacific time on
twitch.tv/dndbeyond and you can follow it
@DnDBeyond on Twitter as well. This is the last
month to use coupon code SamIsYourHero.
SAM: SamIsOurHero.
MATT: Or our hero. Sorry. SamIsOurHero. My
apologies. The lettering there was-- for 25
percent off all digital books purchases in D&D
Beyond there. So make sure if you're going to do
it, take charge and utilize this fantastic
opportunity. You only got a few more weeks so do
it. (Pumat Sol voice) Do it!
TRAVIS: (Pumat Sol voice) Take advantage. I made
a--
MARISHA: Oh yeah, you did good. Yeah, that was
good.
MATT: That was good.
TRAVIS: I think I let down Matt.
MARISHA: You get a gold star for the day.
LIAM: I'm working hard, buddy.
MATT: Exactly. (Pumat Sol voice) "It's also Pumat
week here. While we're in a similar vein," (normal
voice) so we're celebrating everything Pumat here
at Critical Role. We have the new t-shirt in the
store, which you can look at here. It's available.
You can head to critrole.com. shop.critrole.com, I
believe, to go ahead and get your t-shirt. Also,
we have the new Pumat voice pack that is available
through our friends at-- was it-- Killer Voices!
Thank you. My brain--
MARISHA: Overwolf.
MATT: Overwolf and Killer Voices. You can download
the voice pack for a number of popular games.
League of Legends, PUBG, Fortnite, DOTA 2 and as
opposed to the regular announcer, you get to have
"me tell you when you kill somebody, 'Poor
fella.'" Or when you lose a match being like, "Oh,
maybe you should have rolled a paladin." So yeah,
we did a whole shit ton of variations. This
Saturday is a video stream of me and Taliesin here
playing Fortnite for the first time for both of us!
TALIESIN and MATT: It's a thing.
TALIESIN: It's entertaining.
MATT: If you have played a lot of Fortnite, watch
and marvel at how terrible we are at the game.
TALIESIN: This will be you one day.
LIAM: You didn't dominate?
TALIESIN: I don't even--
MATT: It depends on what your goal is in playing
the game--
TALIESIN: We succeeded.
MATT: If your goal was to play it and build stuff,
we did that a few times.
LAURA: Good job, guys.
TALIESIN: We did. It was nice. We played it more
like Minecraft really, like Minecraft with
snipers. Oh, this is such a nice garden we're--
and it's over. I don't even know what happened.
MATT: We had some sweet moments. We built some
memories together.
TALIESIN: We found a bunker.
MATT: We found a bunker and we outfitted it--
TALIESIN: I really enjoyed that bunker.
MATT: It was beautiful.
TALIESIN: There was balloons.
MATT: That would be this Saturday on
twitch.tv/criticalrole. You can find all that info
at critrole.com. All right, we also have your FPS
stream coming up soon Travis on top of all that--
TRAVIS: That's right. Oh god, I know! At least I'm
not the only one that's going to get butchered.
Yeah, next Tuesday, December 11th at 4pm--
MARISHA: We're the worst Twitch streamers.
TRAVIS: Yeah, no. Totally. We're the anti-Twitch
streamers. There's really good people like Ninja
and then there's us. Every yin has a yang, right?
So Foster and I, next Tuesday the 11th, we're
going to play some Black Ops as part of our recent
fundraising campaign for Operation Supply Drop! It
will be live at twitch.tv/criticalrole.
LIAM: I bet you guys clock in at like just below
average--
TRAVIS: We probably won't suck too much. We'll
have moments of brilliance followed by lots of swearing.
LAURA: When was the last time you played?
TRAVIS: It's been months.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Many months because of baby.
LAURA: Because of baby.
TRAVIS: And in the in between moments that I do
have: Red Dead. Sorry Black Ops, but I got to get
back in there and practice.
(laughter)
MATT: That was a look.
LIAM: That took a dark turn.
MATT: Yeah, they worked it out. Thank you Travis.
Excited for that. All right, and before we kick
into tonight's episode, we have something cool to
show you guys. Very happy to unveil this so I
figure, let's go ahead and jump in. Roll the
tape.
[water bubbling]
[thunder]
[explosion]
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
[dramatic Critical Role theme]
LAURA: Roll the dice! (singing) The adventure
begins, they were always beside you, your nerdy
best friends, and the DM to guide you. And they
rise from the flames for the battles ahead.
Villains beware 'cause you're 'bout to be dead.
ASHLEY: (singing) They got magic and flair, they
got falchions and cunning. They don't see over
there there's a monster incoming. Inspiration is
waiting, rise up, don't think twice. Put your fate
in your hands, take a chance, roll the dice!
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
ASHLEY and LAURA: (singing) Can you answer the
call? Dig in deep in your soul as the legend
unfolds. Now it's your turn to roll!
[fire burning]
(laughter and cheering)
MATT: That was pretty awesome. That's our new
intro guys. Travis and Sam kept this a secret from
all of us for a long time.
TRAVIS: Yeah we did. For over five months, Sam and
I worked with some extremely talented animators in
the Philippines. We have to give massive props and
love to Kamille and Kevin Areopagita. They are
absolutely brilliant. You can check out their
twitter page at @karekareo. Their patreon is
there. Go. Give them both love. Support their
patreon. They are far too talented to not be doing
more. We were so lucky to work with them on this.
They were absolutely amazing. Every little bit of
creative input we gave them, they just smashed it.
We couldn't be happier.
SAM: Yes and we have other people to thank for
putting this whole thing together. Specifically,
our lovely Laura Bailey and Ashley Johnson for
singing that theme song.
LIAM: So good!
SAM: We put together a new song for you guys and
the ladies took the leads and they killed it.
Destroyed it. You might also hear some light
backing vocals from a young Sam Riegel and a young
Travis Willingham buried deep in there and we
should also give a shout out to Jason Charles
Miller who co-wrote the song and also did a lot of
the instrumentation and made it really cool and
rock and roll and stuff. You'll see-- you won't
see. You'll hear, there's a little violin part by
Colm McGuinness who's a friend of the show. He
recorded a violin part.
TRAVIS: Did the little Wildemount theme song.
SAM: Yeah. My brother-in-law Peter Habib of Mr.
Fantastic did the final mix for the song. It was
really fun to do and now it's out there and you
guys saw it and we hope you like it.
TRAVIS: So good and you'll be able to see all of
them now as much as you want but I figure we'll
let Matt make it part of the new official thing--
SAM: Oh, and also I think the song-- Do we
announce about the song?
TRAVIS: It should be available--
SAM: The song will be on iTunes and stuff soon?
Now-ish?
TRAVIS: We'll see. As soon as tonight. Maybe
tomorrow or two weeks. It just depends on how that
service works.
MARISHA: I think now.
SAM: It's called "Your Turn to Roll" so look it
up.
TRAVIS: "Your Turn to Roll." A Critical Role
thing.
MARISHA: The TDs are prepared to play it again if
we so choose.
LIAM: No, they don't want to see it. We should
just get to the game, right?
TRAVIS: You shut your damn mouth!
LIAM: Roll it again!
TRAVIS: Let's let Matt make it official.
MATT: Without further ado, let's go ahead and jump
in to tonight's episode of Critical Role.
[water bubbling]
[thunder]
[explosion]
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
[dramatic Critical Role theme]
LAURA: Roll the dice! (singing) The adventure
begins, they were always beside you, your nerdy
best friends, and the DM to guide you. And they
rise from the flames for the battles ahead.
Villains beware 'cause you're 'bout to be dead.
ASHLEY: (singing) They got magic and flair, they
got falchions and cunning. They don't see over
there there's a monster incoming. Inspiration is
waiting, rise up, don't think twice. Put your fate
in your hands, take a chance, roll the dice!
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
ASHLEY and LAURA: (singing) Can you answer the
call? Dig in deep in your soul as the legend
unfolds. Now it's your turn to roll!
[fire burning]
MATT: And welcome back. Good job, Liam.
LIAM: It's the only thing I'm here for.
MATT: So last we left off, the Mighty Nein, after
being pulled through a series of pirate adjacent
and straight up pirate adventures across the
Swavain Islands here in the Lucidian ocean, on the
ship, the Squalleater, under the Captain
Avantica's rule, you made your way to Darktow
where you attempted to find a way to discredit
her. Find a way to not be dragged into her
business in the future. It got a little messy but
you managed to avoid it coming to too terrible a
head until you are brought into her ship last week
where a battle unfolded, in which most of you
managed to skitter away with the contents of this
journal that you had taken from her as well as the
translation for the cipher that was used to write
it. Managed to make your way to the Plank King in
time and have him bring his resources to the docks
before any more of you could be further destroyed.
Summoning a demon helped as part of the
distraction, as well as patiently waiting. Some
quick thought process moments. You guys did pretty
damn well. You managed to just break enough laws
to be put not in favor of the Plank King but
managed to have done a large favor enough to be
let leave and never return. Taking the hobbled
ship that you guys had busted with you, you made
your way out into the open ocean, heading
northeast from Darktow and the Dragshallow Reef,
in search of the possible shipwreck that started
Fjord's destiny in the direction of Uk'otoa. After
days of travel and a few location spells cast, you
managed to find a blip at the base of the sea.
Using your newfound ability to instill the ability
to breathe water within the party around you, you
sunk to the bottom, holding onto cannonballs, and
began to walk the bottom floor in search of the
shipwreck, eventually coming upon a valley caldera
that slowly sinks down. You noticed, aside from
the whale that just skimmed your presence, the bow
of a derelict, wrecked ship sitting there,
surrounded by seaweed in the barely-visible,
creeping daylight making it this deep in the
waters. So with your lights aglow and the wreck
before you, Mighty Nein, what do you want to do?
TRAVIS: I saw it. That's all I needed. We can head
back up now.
SAM: Good.
TRAVIS: No! We're doing this thing, Nott. We're
pushing through.
SAM: We're doing what? No.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: So we're searching for the orb?
TRAVIS: Well, I mean, that'd be great, if we could
find that.
MARISHA: Do you have any idea of where it might
be?
TRAVIS: No.
MARISHA: All right.
LAURA: Is there anything else we should look for,
Fjord?
TRAVIS: Let's see what's down there in general.
Hope it goes without saying, if you find any
remains, let's be respectful.
TALIESIN: Of course.
LAURA: Do you have a pair of jammies or something
that you lost in the boat that you want us to look
for? Your bedroom or something in there? No?
TRAVIS: No.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Do we see any other sea life?
MATT: We'll get to that because there was a note
left here on my table that I almost forgot because
the game has started. This was written and left
behind by Logic as he passed through earlier. It
says, "Flip over and read as soon as the game
starts."
MARISHA: Oh no.
MATT: "You, Sir Matt, are the sexiest being in all
of Neverland. Sincerely, your boo, Logic."
(laughter)
MATT: That's very sweet.
MARISHA: It's canon.
MATT: Thank you, buddy.
TRAVIS: Thank god it's not, "Here's an Astral
Dreadnought."
MATT: Yeah, I know. Loading the gun against you
guys for the game tonight. It'd be pretty funny.
LIAM: Does that mean that Logic was the whale that
just passed us by?
MATT: There you go.
MARISHA: Oh my god!
LAURA: We still have Pass Without a Trace up. I
just cast it because of that whale.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's right.
MARISHA: Hey, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: You feeling any creepy, spooky, dead
people, or crawlies?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Oh, right.
TALIESIN: That's actually a good idea. I'm also
going to--
MATT: With disadvantage because there's no light
here, and it's a very short range, I'd say.
Because you guys extinguished all your lights when
the--
TRAVIS: That's a natural one.
LAURA: Ooh, starting out right. Woo!
TALIESIN: Perception checks?
MATT: If you want to.
TALIESIN: Also, I'm going to cast Eyes of the
Grave. I'm going to do this a couple times.
SAM: Eyes of the Grave.
TALIESIN: Eyes of the Grave! That's perception of
22.
MATT: With disadvantage?
TALIESIN: Oh, with disadvantage.
MATT: Because you do not have darkvision, and it's
very dark under here, and the distance is very
short. You don't have any lights up.
LAURA: We did have lights up.
MATT: You extinguished them when the whale came
by. You can put the lights back on if you want.
TALIESIN: Oh, okay, I thought we had put them back
up.
TRAVIS: I have darkvision.
MATT: That's true, you do have darkvision.
TRAVIS: The first one was a five, so six.
MATT: Okay, there you go. Six.
TALIESIN: 12.
MATT: 12. Okay.
TALIESIN: With Eyes of the Grave.
MATT: Got you. Eyes of the Grave, you don't sense
anything gathering your attention as you attempt
to reach out your essence to feel for any undead
presence. Nothing. But the very cold waters here
beneath still keep you a bit chilled. It is very
cold down here. Looking around best you can with
the lack of light, aside from the swaying bits of
seaweed that are all fluttering up and slowly
swaying, reaching up hundreds and hundreds of feet
before the darkness takes them, you see the bow of
that wrecked ship. Not much else catches your
attention.
MARISHA: Fjord, what was the name of the ship
again?
TRAVIS: (raspberry)
SAM: You know, the ship that started your whole
backstory?
MATT: It's the Tide's Breadth.
TRAVIS: The Tide's Breadth.
(laughter)
SAM: Your origin story?
TALIESIN: Yeah, the sheet of paper you turned in
nine months ago.
TRAVIS: I don't think I named it in my backstory!
The Tide's Breadth, yes.
LIAM: I am going to summon Frumpkin to my shoulder
and look through Frumpkin's eyes because Frumpkin,
as an octopus, has darkvision. So I will see that
way.
MATT: Perception check with Frumpkin.
LIAM: Oh, not so good. That's his? Just a seven.
MATT: Still a shipwreck. There is a shipwreck
ahead of you guys.
LAURA: When we step, does it make a powder go up
because it's like (poof) on the ocean floor?
MATT: As you do step across the surface of the sea
floor, there are bits of the silt and sediment
that clouds around your foot with each footfall.
LAURA: This is all fish poop! (spits) See that,
Nott?
SAM: No, no thanks. Ugh.
LAURA: Should we go?
TALIESIN: I'm perfectly happy to head towards
this.
TRAVIS: Let's go for it.
MARISHA: You said we had Pass Without a Trace?
SAM: I'm going to try to drink underwater.
TRAVIS: Like a seal.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Going to attempt to drink alcohol
underwater.
MATT: Yes. So you take, and you tip it back. The
thing is, in order for the liquid to leave the
vessel, you have to send air to occupy the space;
there's a transition there. But you're breathing
water, so it will mix water with whatever's in
there.
LAURA: It's salt water, too.
SAM: Oh, shit.
LAURA: You're going to get the poops if you do
it.
MARISHA: Super dehydrating.
SAM: I'll try to coax it out. (blowing)
MATT: I mean, you're not having to siphon it like
gasoline! As soon as you open it, it begins to
diffuse into the nearby sea. It's very briny
alcohol.
SAM: Gets the job done.
MATT: This darkened cloud is filling around Nott's
face.
LAURA: Is this where Dashilla is? Or is she at a
different place?
TRAVIS: Per the song? I mean--
MARISHA: It said that she was in this Diver's
Grave general location, so maybe she's not here.
LAURA: Oh, so there could be something really
scary in here.
TRAVIS: I mean, what are the chances? The ocean's
huge.
LAURA: The chances are really good, Fjord. They're
really good.
MARISHA: Yeah, do you have our luck? You've seen
it.
TRAVIS: Glass half empty, I get it. It's all
right.
MARISHA: Apparently she has a hungry eye.
LAURA: (laughter)
TRAVIS: Got eyes right now. All right, we'll push
forward.
MATT: You guys begin to approach, stepping
carefully towards the base of this. The ship,
where it's sitting, it's resting at an odd angle,
the front of it, the bow slightly angled upward.
You can see the side where this large explosion
tore through the hull. Already, for as long as
it's been there, which has not been but a year
maybe, tops, you can see the rust and the
barnacles beginning to gather and claim the
shipwreck to join. But that's best you can make
out with the lack of light down here.
TRAVIS: Should we stick together, or do we want to
fan out and go around?
LIAM: I could send Frumpkin in ahead of us to have
a look around, if you think that's wise.
TRAVIS: Sure, yeah, that'd be fine.
MARISHA: That's funny.
LIAM: Yes, it is.
MARISHA: Sorry.
TRAVIS: As we get closer, can we see from outside
the ship the extent of the damage from the initial explosion?
MATT: You'd probably have to go around a little
bit, but yeah. You walk around the opposite side
of it. Looking in, you can see there's some
damage. You can see there are holes blown out on
the side that you were facing. As you curve
around, you can see where there's a large, gaping
hole in the side of the cargo hold.
MARISHA: Fjord, I know we've heard the story
probably a dozen times, but can you refresh us on
what happened the day this ship sank?
TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I chased Sabian down into the
hold of the ship, and he was messing with a
package. I saw a fuse burning. As I chased him
back up above deck, there was an explosion, and it
threw me from the ship. It's nice to know that it
wasn't a small explosion. A real motherfucker of a
thing, apparently.
SAM: Were you being pursued by anyone?
TRAVIS: No, we were in a storm. He wasn't supposed
to go below decks, either; that wasn't normally
his thing, so it was strange. When he went down
there, I saw him. When I confronted him, he threw
a dagger into my chest.
MARISHA: What?
TRAVIS: Yeah, well, he turned on me real fast. He
seemed to know that what he was doing wasn't up to
snuff. When I chased him above, he was at the bow
of the ship, getting ready to exit or jump off.
Obviously he knew what was coming next. Then the
explosion went, and the last thing I saw was the
ship as I was being thrown off.
MARISHA: So you all were double-crossed, clearly.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I don't know why, though. I didn't
see anybody.
MARISHA: Onward, I guess.
LAURA: He made it off safely?
TRAVIS: I don't know. I assume.
MATT: You did hear tale of him passing through
Nicodranas not too long ago.
MARISHA: Sabian is the same person as Vandren?
TRAVIS: No, Sabian was someone I grew up with who
was also brought by Vandren to work on the ship.
Yeah, I've known him for many, many years, and
he's always been a piece of shit of one variety or
another. Only in the most recent years did I think
that maybe that stuff had faded between us, and
we'd found a way to work together. But apparently
not.
MATT: As you guys have gotten closer to around the
side of the ship where the most extensive damage
was taken, you can see where the top of the deck
and the edges are blackened from a fire that broke
out, probably during or shortly after the
explosion, but before it sank fully. The edges of
the cargo hold that are blown open-- as soon as
you begin to peer in the inside, you can see the
interior is blackened as well, amongst the other
patches of sea life that have begun to reclaim it
as a home, and bits of seaweed, and general sea
vegetation that has begun to find its way inside
the empty ship.
TRAVIS: Ooh. As an idea, sword in my hand, as we
start to push in through that hole of the
explosion, or peer in, can I lead with the sword
and see if the light and/or eye is reacting in any
sort of way? Or is it just static?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Not my best. Nine.
MARISHA: Nein.
MATT: Nein. As you begin to swim into the
darkened interior, holding the sword in front of
you, it doesn't seem to react, adjust, or give you
any sense that it is able to guide you in any
particular direction.
TRAVIS: In the sea, certain creatures like to make
homes of vessels. You want to send in your--?
LIAM: Ja, that's no problem. I give a little tug
to the leather tied at my knee and cast Mage
Armor. I send Frumpkin in, and reach for Nott, and
hold Nott by the shoulder. Look through Frumpkin's
eyes and send him in to look.
MATT: Okay. Frumpkin's octopus form makes his way
into the cargo hold of the Tide's Breadth
wreckage. Go ahead and roll a perception check for
Frumpkin and take a look around.
LIAM: Terrible. Just terrible. Five.
MATT: Unfortunately, there's so little light down
here, even for the darkvision. There's the basic
outline of the interior hold. Frumpkin can notice
the outline of pieces of broken crates and other
elements that may have once been stored within the
ship, but very little detail is visible.
LIAM: Fjord, do you think it is safe to send in
some light with him?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LIAM: Tap me on the shoulder if you hear me
because I cannot hear you.
TRAVIS: Oh.
TALIESIN: Quick point of order, who's got the
node? We should probably decide now.
LAURA: Oh, I have the node.
TALIESIN: Who was the last to node? Are you
noded?
LAURA: I can node, but somebody else could node.
TRAVIS: Why don't you node?
TALIESIN: You node.
LIAM: (gutturally) Node.
LAURA: Will water get in the bag if I look in--
TALIESIN: I assume we would have done it. I was
just playing flashback, but I don't know.
MATT: Well, if you haven't yet, then you'll be
doing it now.
LAURA: Is it okay to do that?
MATT: One way to find out.
SAM: That sounds crazy.
LIAM: My spell books are in there, so please-- I
can't hear anything.
TALIESIN: That was more of a point of order.
LIAM: I am bowling ball sending one globule of
light in after Frumpkin to go with him.
MATT: Okay. It emanates and lights up the
immediate vicinity. The balls don't give off a lot
of light; they're not torchlight, in comparison.
They work in conjunction to create a larger space
of light, but it does help a little bit. With that
benefit, looking in the space, you can see there
are no bodies. There are no signs of any
individuals who were on this ship, but you also
know from your experience on the sea that those
who die at sea usually float to the surface.
TRAVIS: And drift.
MATT: Yes. You do see some metallic materials that
have grown rusted. You can see the shattered
crates that I mentioned before. A lot of them are
burned and destroyed. As Frumpkin drifts past one
of them, you look inside. There may have been some
metal bars or some sort of a construction-type
iron material, but it's mostly melted and fused
together. In fact, as Frumpkin makes his way
around, all the elements of metal that were
immediately in the vicinity-- it looks like there
was a cannon. There were some other bits of-- all
you can make out is debris at this point, but
other things that were metallic in nature that
have since bowed and fused from the heat of the
explosion and the fire than ensued thereafter
before it sank.
LIAM: It's mucky and dark in there. We would have
to take a closer look; I cannot make out much.
TRAVIS: If you don't mind, I know this ship better
than anybody. Jester, would you come up with me,
and we can explore the captain's quarters? Might
be a good place to start.
LAURA: Of course.
TALIESIN: Do you need a light?
TRAVIS: No, I'm okay.
TALIESIN: All right.
TRAVIS: I'll drop the cannonball, and I will push
up off the ground, Superman-style, in the water,
and swim up above the deck.
LAURA: I guess I'll let this-- okay. I let it go,
too, and float very ungracefully behind him.
MATT: Now because you guys don't have air in your
lungs, you're not buoyant, to the point where
you're not fighting weight. It brought you to the
bottom easier, so you didn't have to swim your way
underneath, but now you're here, the cannonball is
unnecessary to weigh you down.
LIAM: We're Ed Harris now.
MATT: Essentially. You arc over, and you land on
the deck. For a moment as you glance around, it's
very spooky to be back in this familiar place in a
very different setting. It's a strange, ghost-ship
type chill that runs up your back, looking around
and having flash memories of pulling up the anchor
on that side, and having conversations over that
edge at sea. You and Vandren having a deep
conversation there under the main mast.
TRAVIS: His quarters are that way. We should push
forward.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Swim over.
MATT: Okay. You swim through the door. It's
currently open, and the hinges rusted and pulled
off, and the tops of the doors broken and akimbo.
You make your way into the darkened interior
chamber. The door to Vandren's chamber is closed.
What do you want to do?
LAURA: Do you think it's locked?
TRAVIS: I imagine so. Could be still.
LAURA: He wouldn't have trapped it or anything?
TRAVIS: I would say no, but there seem to be more
than a few things that I didn't know about him.
LAURA: I don't have any-- I mean, I can try to
look for traps or something, but--
MATT: Yeah, go for it. Roll, let's say, a
perception, to see if you see anything strange or
out of the ordinary.
LAURA: 14.
MATT: 14. Doesn't look like there are any traps
affixed to the door.
TRAVIS: You're so strong, might want to give it
a--
LAURA: (rattling)
MATT: There's a bit of a rust resistance, but
you're pretty beefy. You shove it with your
shoulder, and it opens up. You can see all the
silt get kicked off and slowly cloud the space
around it as you push the door open.
LAURA: Now I know why you asked me to come with
you.
MATT: You step through and look inside. You see
the familiar quarters of Vandren, though they look tossed.
TRAVIS: Really?
MATT: As you look inside, there's the table where
he normally sat and read his books. That table is
set over; the shelf is pushed over. Looks like
most everything in here has been, in some way,
shape, or form, tossed. You remember there being
all sorts of decorations that he kept in here,
metal candle holders. It's all missing.
TRAVIS: It's all missing. Is there anything that
I--
MATT: At first glance.
TRAVIS: Is there anything that I see that is
definitely out of place or changed that I remember?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Third one of the day. Let's go with this
dice. Natural one.
MATT: Oh, buddy.
SAM: You're nervous down there.
TRAVIS: Apparently. You can pee down here and
nobody'd notice.
MATT: You just stand in the doorway, as opposed to
doing a thorough investigation of the room, and
glance around, and begin tying memories and
moments, and getting lost in that headspace. You
do a not-very-thorough check over the interior.
TRAVIS: Maybe we should get the others and-- what
fucking? Extra?
LIAM: She's giving you your pills.
TRAVIS: I'm always eating stuff. Maybe we should
get some of the others to come in and do a more--
LAURA: Thorough investigation?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: I mean, okay.
TRAVIS: Unless you want to give it a look?
LAURA: Does it look like somebody stole things
from here?
TRAVIS: Yeah. He was a tidy man; he certainly
wouldn't have left things like this. It looks
like, either before or after it went down,
somebody was definitely fucking looking for something.
LAURA: Do you know if he kept anything in a secret
place?
TRAVIS: Do I? I don't think I do.
LAURA: Because maybe he took it all with him.
Maybe he left.
TRAVIS: Could be. Yeah. I'll go get Caduceus and
Caleb.
LAURA: Beau is really good at finding things, I
think.
TRAVIS: I'll go get everybody.
LAURA: I'll keep looking around the room while
he--
MATT: Okay, you're doing a thorough investigation
of the interior? Roll an investigation check as
you rummage through the wreckage.
LAURA: 13.
MATT: Okay. Looking through and moving some things
aside because you're a sturdy tiefling, pushing
things out of the way while you're off, you glance
underneath the table in the far left corner. You
see a reinforced metal box, somewhat melted along
one edge, just faintly. It's left open. The lock
mechanism on it appears to have been broken by
brute force. Where it was forced open, there are
some heavy claw marks along the edges where the
metal itself looks scarred. The interior, as you
pull it open and look inside, is set with a
leather recess on each side, top and bottom, soft
leather with two halves that are somewhat
spherical, like to hold a small apple.
LAURA: Oh no. It got taken. Fjord's going to be so
upset. Can I cast Locate Object and see if I can
sense the orb around within a thousand feet?
MATT: Yeah. You cast Locate Object, concentrating
on the orb. Let me have a quick glance at this.
LIAM: Is one the same as another?
MATT: All right.
SAM: If you find the orb, you should totally bond
with it and get all the water powers that Fjord wants.
LAURA: Oh my god, that would be so amazing.
LIAM: She already has them.
SAM: Just because.
MATT: Okay, so you're not looking for the orb that
Fjord has, something similar to it?
LAURA: Right.
MATT: Okay. You do suddenly acknowledge-- your
head pulls at the back of your skull, and you
glance over your shoulder away from the ship.
LAURA: (gasping)
SAM: Hello?
MATT: Just as everyone else returns and comes in
the chamber.
LAURA: Fjord!
TALIESIN: Well, this is a mess.
TRAVIS: What?
LAURA: It got taken. The orb is gone.
TRAVIS: No.
LAURA: Yeah, but it's over there!
TRAVIS: What do you mean?
LAURA: My spidey sense is tingling. It's behind
us. It's over there. I used Locate Object.
TRAVIS: That's amazing! Lead the way!
LAURA: You want to go now? You don't want to look
around or any--?
TRAVIS: No, let's go now!
SAM: You dragged us in here to look around, and
now we're not going to look around?
TALIESIN: I think doing a once-over might not be a
bad idea.
MARISHA: Why don't you guys go get a head start
and we'll--
LIAM: In the ocean? Let's take--
LAURA: Locate Object lasts ten minutes. If it
takes longer to get there, then--
MARISHA: You guys go.
LAURA: We'll come back.
MARISHA: We'll check it out real quick.
TALIESIN: Maybe bring the little octopi with you?
LIAM: Yeah, I schloof Frumpkin to the back of
Caduceus' head.
TALIESIN: Oh! Okay, that's a--
MATT: (slurping) The tentacles wrap around and
grasp.
TALIESIN: That's-- okay.
MATT: It's like a reverse facehugger.
LAURA: Who's coming with Fjord?
TALIESIN: I think we should probably all stick
together, one way or the other.
LAURA: I think all of us should go.
TRAVIS: Do you know how far away it was?
LAURA: Within a thousand feet.
MATT: Roughly, the direction you know, you sense
it's probably between seven to eight hundred feet
from your current location.
TRAVIS: All right. Yes. Fine. Take five minutes,
six minutes, and--
LAURA: No!
LIAM: While they're debating I spit out four
globules of light and start casing the room.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: You have two minutes!
TALIESIN: I'm going to let the flora and fauna in
here know that we're looking for some stuff. One
of our people used to live here. We'll be gone,
and everything's going to be fine.
MARISHA: I'll do a quick glance for anything that
looks like it could have loose boards, secret compartments.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
LAURA: While they're looking, I want to point out
to everyone that whatever it was that took this
ball has claws, and it looks like it could break
this thing open. It looks like it might do some
damage to us.
TRAVIS: Is it dented at all, or just scratched?
TALIESIN: How big a creature does it look like was
taking a--?
MATT: Make a nature check.
TRAVIS: Yeah, like an inch between the claw marks
or a couple inches?
LIAM: 21 on investigation.
MARISHA: 19.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: 14.
MATT: Okay. Looking at it, the claw marks are
probably roughly an inch to an inch and a half
apart, and there's four of them. It looks like an
indentation for a thumb across one side, almost
like whoever was grabbing it was pulling it open
this way and, as they pulled it open, their
fingers scratched across the metal as it bent and
broke open.
LAURA: It's bad.
TRAVIS: While they're doing this, you can tell if
it moves, right?
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: They mentioned that Dashilla has claws
that grasp. Just throwing that out there. Really
committed that song to memory.
SAM: Hungry eye, claws, yeah.
MARISHA: Claws that grasp.
TRAVIS: Glad you remembered that. I'm kind of
forgetful.
MATT: As you guys finish doing your once-over of
the chamber, you find a false shelf bottom under
one of the bookcases that was toppled over. As you
pull inside, it looks like it may have been what
this box was inside. It has been pulled open and
broken, the wood compartment partially shattered
in the front. Looking through, this room has been
pretty ransacked.
LIAM: The books are basically mud at this point,
correct?
MATT: Yeah, what remains of the handful of bound
leather tomes in the vicinity have mostly joined
the muck at the bottom of the ocean.
TRAVIS: Here, underwater? Yeah.
TALIESIN: Maybe it's time to--
TRAVIS: Might be. Did you find anything
underneath? Any remnants of that explosion,
package, shrapnel, anything like that?
TALIESIN: Just a little walk around, just to get a
sense of the place.
MATT: Okay. Going through, you go through a number
of cabins, chambers. This isn't an incredibly
massive ship. It was mainly used for sailing and
for transport. It's strange for you to go back,
once again, following through Caduceus and looking
and finding your old chambers as well. A lot of
the rooms from the explosion have been destroyed.
Because of your generally perceptive persona, you
can see elements where this explosion happened.
There are stains of individuals that may have been
in the proximity, but no sign of their bodies.
TALIESIN: Hm. No.
MATT: You begin to piece together the power and
the source of this detonation, and you get caught
up slightly thumbing through the memories and
remembering the people and the faces that used to
serve on this ship with you. Remembering the room
where Sabian stayed. Wondering, if Sabian
survived, who else may have? But he also was the
one jumping from the deck when the explosion hit.
Everything has been cleaned out. This appears
salvaged. Somebody has come through here and taken
from the interior.
TRAVIS: I think it's safe to assume that that was
done after the ship sunk. A hole this size
wouldn't keep a vessel in the water very long.
MARISHA: No. Do we know anything about underwater
creatures that would be interested in, I don't know--
TRAVIS: Glowing eyes?
MARISHA: Yeah. Jewels?
TRAVIS: Pretties?
MARISHA: Underwater goblins?
MATT: I mean, there are a number of creatures of
folklore and things that are greedy no matter
where they live.
TRAVIS: Locate Ariel.
MARISHA: Yeah, mermaids? I don't know.
MATT: Make a history check.
LIAM: It could also be someone who was having
dreams, Fjord.
TRAVIS: True. Very true.
MARISHA: 18.
MATT: I mean, there was one other time that you
encountered creatures that seemed to be gathering
and hoarding things that were shiny and happened
to be affiliated with underwater existence.
MARISHA: Yeah, right.
TRAVIS: I'm sorry, I can't wait any longer. Do you
mind if we go? This is all too strange.
LAURA: Be on guard.
MATT: Where are you exiting?
TRAVIS: Fuck it, we'll go back up above deck, and
we'll jump off the stern in the direction that Jester--
MATT: Okay, make a perception check for me.
LAURA: Are the globules of light around?
LIAM: If we are in a group, they are. They were
around the group.
TRAVIS: Goddamn it!
LAURA: That's why I said switch to a fucking dice
that I gave you!
LIAM: Take your pills, Travis. Take your pills.
TRAVIS: Three.
MATT: In your excitement in having this thread of
possibility towards recovering this third and
final orb, from what you understand, you
immediately turn around and swim and dart outward
towards where the deck is, into the open waters,
just as your eyes clarify to see three large
figures that are floating about 20 or so feet
ahead that seems to have encircled the deck. In
but a split second, you can immediately make out
their outline. You can see the sides of the
frilled head. You can see the long, fish-like
lower torso, and you can see the familiar tridents
with chains affixed to the edge.
LAURA: Fuck! Now we're underwater with them?
MARISHA: Now we're going to fight underwater?
MATT: Let's roll initiative.
TRAVIS: Oh no!
MATT: It seems that, in these darkened waters,
light sources can be very easy to see.
LAURA: Shit, shit, shit.
LIAM: How about a high roll? Nope.
TRAVIS: We're good, we're good.
LAURA: Shit, shit, shit balls, shit.
SAM: Guys, Backblaze can back up your stuff.
Whoa!
LAURA: Wow, this is so cool, Matthew!
SAM: Someone went to the aquatic store.
TALIESIN: Thank you, Petco!
TRAVIS: Yeah, dude.
LAURA: Look at that cool-ass busted-up ship.
SAM: Did you bust up the ship, or does it come
busted up?
MATT: It came like this, busted up.
LAURA and SAM: What!
MATT: Marching order, if you don't mind, of who
was behind Fjord.
TRAVIS: I'll let y'all crawl up.
LAURA: I would have been close behind because--
LIAM: (singing) Caleb takes the rear.
MATT: Yasha probably right behind there.
MARISHA: I'll be behind Yasha.
MATT: All right. Caleb takes the rear.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I don't know if I was quite
outside yet. I think Beau and I maybe switch
places, if that's okay.
MATT: Beau said she was behind Yasha.
MARISHA: Well, I can switch with Cad.
MATT: That's up to you. Fine. Caduceus inside
there. All right, then there's Beau. And Nott?
SAM: I'm way back there, not even looking.
MATT: Chilling with Caleb. All right.
TRAVIS: Wanting to be drunk, but not really.
SAM: Oh, I'm drunk.
LAURA: Are you? How are you drunk?
MARISHA: He's dehydrated.
SAM: I got drunk before we came underwater. That's
the only way I could go underwater.
LAURA: Oh no. These trident things are really bad.
Do you remember how bad they are?
SAM: No!
MARISHA: Don't they have harpoon chains?
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: Initiative order, please. 25 to 20, anyone?
TALIESIN: Crickets.
TRAVIS: Oh shit!
MATT: 20 to 15?
LAURA: 15.
TRAVIS: Yasha got a 17.
MARISHA: 15.
MATT: Yasha got 17? All right.
TRAVIS: Wow, that's high for her.
MATT: All right. Then 15 for Beau and Jester? All
right. 15 to ten?
TRAVIS: 14.
MATT: 14 for Fjord.
TRAVIS: Fuck! Guys!
MATT: All right, ten to five?
LIAM: Sechs.
SAM: Seven.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: Oh Jesus.
MATT: Caduceus?
TALIESIN: Four.
MATT: All righty.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Good start. Here we go! The pendulum
swings wildly.
MARISHA: From where we were last week.
MATT: Great. Top of the round, first up is Yasha.
TRAVIS: Yeah, she is! Right, yeah, and she is back
there? Oh, and there they are. Okay, lovely.
Underwater, is her speed halved?
MATT: Everyone's speed is halved underwater.
TRAVIS: Except mine.
MATT: Except yours.
TRAVIS: My armor. Wow, good fucking deal. Okay.
MARISHA: Man, this sucks. How are we supposed to
get to those assholes? We can swim!
TRAVIS: How far in this diagonal movement would 20
feet get Yasha towards the nearest enemy?
MATT: Her movement speed is 40, right?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: 20 feet would get her almost into melee with
this one.
TRAVIS: Almost?
MATT: Yeah, just outside of it.
TRAVIS: Okay, she will swim towards that merrow,
and with her bonus action, she would like to rage.
SAM: Underwater rage.
MATT: All right, so rage. Then she can use her
action to dash and move again if she's not
attacking with it.
TRAVIS: Oh, yes, then let's do that and get within
melee.
MATT: All right, she gets into melee with that
figure there. You got it. That finishes Yasha's
go. Beau and Jester, your turns.
MARISHA: You want to go first?
LAURA: Sure. I'll use Guiding Bolt.
MATT: All right. Against which one?
LAURA: The one that Yasha's attacking.
MATT: Okay, go for it. Roll for an attack.
TRAVIS: As a point of order, can she also yell,
"Don't let them leave!"
LAURA: Yasha?
MATT: Sure.
MARISHA: They always bring more friends.
LAURA: 16?
MATT: 16 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on that
one.
TRAVIS: That was more Caleb than Yasha, but--
SAM: Don't let them leave!
LAURA: 4d6! That's cocked.
MATT: Slightly Norse.
TRAVIS: That's it.
LAURA: 11, 15, 17 points.
MATT: Nice! That one, next attack on it has
advantage.
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: As Yasha says that, Jester glances over,
puts her hand out. This sparkling, radiant light
goes through the water, leaving this vacuum trail
behind as the bolt slams into the merrow,
brightening up around its chest with the impact of
the magical energy. Now its form is glittering
with that light, making it very easy to spot its
location. Do you want to move or stay where you are?
LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to back up.
MATT: Back up back inside?
LAURA: Yeah. Yeah, that's good.
MATT: You move inside the chamber there. Okay.
LAURA: To be not within five feet of Caleb. I want
to be against the wall of whatever that--
yeah, like that.
MATT: You got it. That ends your turn. Beau, what
are you doing?
MARISHA: Am I within 20 feet of the guy that she
just marked? If I swim up?
MATT: You have 25 feet. You can get right up to
it. I'll shift these guys here a little bit to
make a space for it where they were.
MARISHA: I jump off and parkour off.
SAM: Slow motion parkour!
MARISHA: I get really frustrated, and so I dog
paddle the rest of the way. Then I'm going to take my--
MATT: Is your speed 50, then?
MARISHA: No, it's 45. That's why I was saying 20
feet.
MATT: Oh, got you. So it would be 20 feet because
you round down in D&D unless it specially says
otherwise. So you'd be just out of range.
MARISHA: Then let me spend a ki point to do Step
of the Wind.
MATT: All right, that'll get you the distance you
need there.
MARISHA: Which sucks, but that's okay. Then I'm
going to attack.
MATT: (singing) Do it!
MARISHA: Just jam my staff into its face. Not too
bad. 22.
MATT: 22 hits.
MARISHA: Okay. That's good. Ten.
MATT: Ten points of damage. You have advantage on
that attack, by the way, because of the Guiding Bolt.
MARISHA: Let's see if it's a natural 20. It is not
a natural 20. Then, okay, hang on, I used my bonus
action. Oh, I get one more hit.
LIAM: Cocked.
MATT: You do not have advantage on that one. Only
the first one.
MARISHA and LIAM: It was cocked.
MATT: Oh, got you.
MARISHA: That's not good, though. That is 12.
MATT: 12 misses, unfortunately. The first strike
manages to clock it in the face. However, as you
go to swing backward, the water resistance in
itself-- which, actually, this is a good point of
order. Remember, you're underwater. Remember this
going forward; melee attacks and weapon attacks
have disadvantage.
(groaning)
TRAVIS: Fuck a duck. Yeah, okay, that changes
shit. That's got to go. Oh, boy. Oh, yeah.
TALIESIN: I mean, it means your advantage cancels
that out, though, so--
MATT: A melee weapon attack. Ranged weapon attacks
automatically miss if they're beyond the normal
range. The attack roll has disadvantage unless the
weapon is a crossbow, a net, or a weapon that's
thrown like a javelin. So technically, Nott, your
attacks are fine underwater.
LAURA: But magic attacks are fine.
MATT: Magic attacks are fine, but melee weapon
attacks have disadvantage.
MARISHA: Who is that next to me? Is that Yasha?
MATT and LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to spend another ki point
to do Patient Defense.
MATT: You've already used your bonus action to--
MARISHA: Oh, shit. Sorry, you're right. I forgot
that that's not a free action. Okay, I'm done.
MATT: No worries. After the resistance of the
water keeps your blow from coming with too much
impact, the merrow spins to you. As its jaw opens,
there's the rows of tiny, sharp teeth. It's creepy
when it's right in front of you. These are
similar, but different than the ones you fought
before up at the swamp. These have longer, more
sallow features. They seem to be a little bit more
ocean-based, and as such, there's a variation to
how they look. That finishes Jester's and Beau's
turn. Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: I will, with my bonus action, cast
Hexblade's Curse on this merrow, the one that's in
the middle, and I will fire two Eldritch Blasts at
it.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM and TRAVIS: (drawn out) Eldritch Blasts.
TRAVIS: Oh, they're both 18s. So 25 to hit both.
MATT: Both hit!
TRAVIS: Four, so that's 12 points of damage. The
second one is nine points of damage, so 21.
MATT: It gets hit twice in the chest. It tries to
loop around now. You can see the shapes against
the little bit of light you can see from the
surface above, but it's still very dark in the
vicinity aside from the globes he has behind.
TRAVIS: Actually, you gain plus three to damage
rolls on Hexblade's Curse, so instead of 21--
MATT: Oh, so you cursed that guy?
TRAVIS: Yeah, with my bonus action, I did that
first. So 22 total, so add three. With my
movement, I will move back under the deck where
Caduceus and Caleb and Jester are.
MATT: You going to stay in the doorway or move
into the chamber?
TRAVIS: One step in.
MATT: All right. One step into the room?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, so you'd still be there.
TRAVIS: Not so I'm blocking the entry, but just so
that I'm in, out of thrown-harpoon way, you know
what I mean?
MATT: Okay, so you probably move that way then.
That ends your go. That brings us to their turn.
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: This one right there in the front, it's
going to make-- let's see here.
SAM: 16 attacks.
MATT: One bite with its claw and one with its bite
against, I'm going to say you, since you're the
only one who actually managed to connect with it
physically. As you rush up into its face and slam
it once, the other attack misses as it curves
under. It goes (snarling). Its jaw opens to try
and snap towards your shoulder and neck area.
MARISHA: Yasha gets a sentinel attack, yeah?
LAURA: Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
MATT: No, they do not because they both have
sentinel. We have to remember that!
MARISHA: Fuck!
TRAVIS: If they both have sentinel--?
MATT: Yeah, if they both have sentinel, they can't
bounce attacks. We kept forgetting that in the past.
MARISHA: You can't do that, technically.
LIAM: There's too much awesome in one spot.
MARISHA: That's literally what it is.
MATT: Because the combination becomes super
broken. That's going to be a--
LAURA: Don't attack the same thing, you guys!
MATT: 19 to hit.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All right, and then the claw attack. Ooh,
that's going to be a 22 to hit. You suffer from
the bite attack nine points of piercing damage.
MARISHA: Suffer me the little merrow.
MATT: Then the claws deal ten points of slashing
damage.
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: It's going to attempt to move out of the way
of each of you because it doesn't know any better.
It has a swim speed of 40 feet, so it's going to
attempt to pull back to get some range. You each
technically get an attack of opportunity on it.
MARISHA: Pop pop.
MATT: It's hoping. Disadvantage on each attack.
TRAVIS: I'll make it reckless.
MATT: You can't make-- reckless you have to do on
your turn, I think.
MARISHA: One was a natural 20 from Gil.
MATT: What was the other?
MARISHA: Can't use it. It was a seven. 14 for me.
SAM: Oh, that's not bad.
MATT: 14 hits.
MARISHA and LAURA: Yay!
TALIESIN: Good to know.
MATT: Reckless attack: When you make your first
attack on your turn. So you have to choose it on
your turn.
TRAVIS: Got you. 19 to hit.
MATT: 19 still hits! Yeah. You both can attack,
and it does not move. It tries to pull away, and--
MARISHA: That's right, because sentinel!
(cheering)
MATT: There you go. See, now it pays off.
TRAVIS: 13 points of slashing damage.
MARISHA: 11 points of damage from me.
LAURA: Punching damage!
MARISHA: Of punching damage, yeah.
MATT: It tries to back away, hoping that the water
itself will help protect it to pull away. Nuh-uh.
The two ladies are not going to let it flee.
Whack! One hit from Beau as Yasha, through the
water, carves with the greatsword, Magician's
Judge, hitting across the chest. You can see this
deep red cloud form around its chest as it tries
to pull away. You hold it in place, unable to escape.
MARISHA: Just like the opening title sequence, you
guys.
MATT: There you go.
LAURA: Yeah, I know. I was about to say!
MARISHA: So good!
MATT: This one that's hexed is going to move down
towards the deck. It'll glance through and it sees
Caleb. It's going to move in a little closer to
Caleb and as it pulls its harpoon back, it throws
it forward towards you. It's going to attempt to
harpoon you, Caleb. That is a 19 to hit.
(groaning)
LIAM: I-- shite-- take it.
LAURA: But you're going to get harpooned in!
You'll be grappled!
LIAM: There's nothing to do about it.
MATT: You take 11 points of piercing damage. I'm
going to need you to make a strength check.
LIAM: I'm good at those.
SAM: Oh, that's your best. You'll be fine.
MATT: It's contested.
LIAM: That's a six.
MATT: Yeah. You get pulled out of the interior.
LAURA: No!
LIAM: How much did I get harpooned for? 11? Was it
11?
MATT: 11.
LAURA: Can we grab onto him for a reaction?
MATT: Nope! Caleb stands there in the back,
looking, and all of a sudden (impacts) into his
chest. The thing pierces in the stomach area there
and then gets pulled out. You try to reach for
him, but he's already gone and he gets pulled out
in the middle of the open area. From there, comes
the shallow priest's turn.
LAURA: Oh no!
SAM: The shallow priest?
MARISHA: We fought one of those last time.
SAM: We did?
MARISHA: Yeah!
LIAM: It lightninged us.
TALIESIN: It went great.
MARISHA: Yes, we did.
LAURA: What's its weakness, Beau?
MARISHA: I'm looking.
MATT: The shallow priest is going to move down and
it's going to move to there. It's going to attempt
to harpoon Caleb out of the other one's grasp as
well. It's trying to chain pull you away. That's
going to be a 17 to hit.
LIAM: Shield.
MATT: The harpoon ricochets off of the Shield and
goes limp. The creature pulls on the chain as it
falls back into its grasp. It's currently
clutching its staff in the other hand and it's
going to pull back for the rest of its movement
there out of the vicinity. That's going to end
their turn. Now it comes to Nott.
SAM: (screams) Seeing my friend pulled away, I will swim
reluctantly forward, stagger near him, and say
to the creature that's captured him: Hey, fuckey!
What do you give a merrow who sings poorly? Auto-tuna!
(groaning)
TRAVIS: Wow!
SAM: (laughing) I'm drunk, motherfucker!
LIAM: I've abandoned my son!
TRAVIS: The last syllable delivered that one.
SAM: I will cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter.
MATT: Oh, gotcha! It's a wisdom saving throw?
SAM: Wisdom, yes. 14. Not a high mark.
MATT: The one that currently has Caleb. That is
going to be a 12. Success!
SAM: So do they let go? It says they fall prone,
which they can't do underwater, but they are
incapacitated, it says. So do they let go?
MATT: The harpoon that pulled Caleb in has been
pulled out of the wound and there's a little bit
of blood that's now trailing from the initial
impact. Caleb is not currently held or grappled.
It's just not in his face.
SAM: Oh, he's not impaled or anything?
MATT: Not at this moment. When it pulled him in,
it pulled it out of his body, but it's right in
front of him.
SAM: Then I will use the rest, if I have any
remaining movement, to grab him by his scarf and
pull him back away.
MATT: You can't quite get up to him,
unfortunately. Because it's 15 feet underwater.
Your speed of 30 is reduced to 15, and it took
15 feet to get far out. You could, as a bonus
action, dash to move up to him, but you can't pull
him back because you don't have an action to try
and grab.
SAM: Got it. Ooh, tough. I will bonus action dash
and try to push him away. Push Caleb to the right or
left out of the way.
MATT: I'll say make a strength check.
SAM: Okay. Nope. Oh wait, this is at disadvantage.
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Even worse! One. I'll save you!
MATT: You feel this small push on your shoulder and
you see Nott drift upside down in front of you. As
the merrow who pulled you in with this terrible,
toothy grimace and starts going (chuckling) and is
bowling over, chuckling. It's a weird moment. That
finishes Nott's go. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: So those two are incapacitated in this
second, right?
MATT: That one is incapacitated.
LIAM: The one on top is not?
MATT: No, he's just held in place.
LIAM: Okay. Well then, I will cast Slow on the
shallow priest and the one that's laughing in front
of me as well as I back away.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: What does Slow give them?
LIAM: Slowness.
TRAVIS: Half their speed and--
LIAM: Hurts their AC. It's a wisdom saving of 16.
MATT: Concentrating, both of you guys. Wisdom
saving throw. That's a failure on the shallow
priest and the one that's over there rolled an 18.
So that's incapacitated is fine with the Slow;
however, the shallow priest is slowed.
LIAM: So shallow priest's AC is down by two,
disadvantage on dex saves, and he can only do an
action or a bonus, not both.
MATT: Correct. If it tries to cast a spell, it
takes a full round back before it can even hit.
LIAM: I back away half my speed towards where
everybody is in the boat. I move behind my goblin Freund.
MATT: You just manage to get back inside of the
chamber. The doorway's still open. All right, that
finishes your go. Caduceus, you're up.
TRAVIS: Come on, Cad!
TALIESIN: Am I going to double this up? How are
you feeling?
LIAM: (gurgling) Okay. Pretty good.
TALIESIN: Pretty good? I'm going to use a bonus
action-- I can do two first level spells in a
round, right? If one's bonus action, one is an
action, that's fine?
MATT: Nope.
TALIESIN: Just one or the other?
MATT: One has to be cantrip and the other can be
any level.
TALIESIN: Cantrip, there we go. Thank you. I'm
going to scoot past you with half of my action, if
that's okay, and take a look outside to see what's
up. How far away--
MATT: You have five more of feet in movement
there, stepping out of the doorway.
TALIESIN: I have five feet no matter what? Okay.
Goddamn. There's no getting back in anyway, so
fuck it. Yeah, there's no sense trying to get back
inside. I'm just going to be vulnerable. How far
away is that one? Is that more than 30 feet away?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: There's no way I can get close enough to
get within 30 feet right now, is there?
MATT: You can move five more feet, you might. You
have to eyeball it and may take the risk.
TALIESIN: You know what? It's not like distance is
a problem here. I'll go in an angle and de-clump--
yeah, right there.
MATT: (counting) I'll say with the angle, 30, he's
just within range.
TALIESIN: I think all three of those are within 30
feet then, at this point. I think that's pretty
fair. I'm casting Bane on all three of them.
(oohing)
TRAVIS: Fucking Caduceus!
TALIESIN: That's a charisma save against 16.
MARISHA: There's no way these fuckers are
charismatic.
MATT: Nope! That's a fail. One in the middle,
that's a ten, that's a fail. Over here, that's a
five. That's a fail. They all have a minus one on
their charisma.
TALIESIN: They all take a negative d4 from an
attack or saving throws. All three of them.
MATT: Not bad for a 1st-level spell. It doesn't
get a lot of love.
TALIESIN: It's not a bad 1st-level spell.
MATT: The water around seems to get even darker
for a moment and ice crystals begin to form at the
edge of their bodies as the chill becomes
unnatural and begins sluggishly shift their
movements, this cleric spell sending itself into
their form. That finishes your turn?
TALIESIN: That's everything I can do.
MATT: Finishing that up, we can do the top of the
round. Yasha's up first.
TRAVIS: She's going to take two reckless attacks
at this one that is near her for just a straight roll.
MATT: Go for it. Yasha, by the way, is no longer
raging. She wasn't attacked or didn't-- Oh no, but
she did get an attack of opportunity, so she would
be. You're correct.
TRAVIS: So 20 on the first one.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: The second is a 24.
MATT: Yeah, both hit.
TRAVIS: The first one (counting). Damn it. Seven
plus three is ten. And the second one--
MATT: First blow, as she swings by, carves through
as it goes taut for a second, all of its muscle
seizing, and then goes limp as its torso begins to
drift away from the lower half of its fish body
and it begins to slowly float off.
TRAVIS: Great. Shit. So if I didn't need that
second attack, did I waste it on the one that was there?
MATT: Right now, you still have the second attack.
It depends on the movement you have and I don't
what else you can get in range for.
SAM: Just hit Beau! She's right there.
MATT: Did you roll disadvantage on that attack, by
the way?
TRAVIS: I made it reckless, so it was just a
straight roll. I'll use the 20 feet to head down
towards the one that Caduceus is right in front
of.
MATT: I would say that gets you right about there.
You'd be just in range for the one that's incapacitated.
TRAVIS: Is that melee?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Okay, yeah.
MATT: It's just a-- down, it swims down.
TRAVIS: I should have to roll, yeah?
MATT: Yeah, reroll for this one.
TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: 17 hits!
TRAVIS: Okay, great. This does not have the extra
d6, so that's three plus six is nine, 12 points of
slashing damage.
MATT: 12 points of slashing damage.
LAURA: Is it hexed, did you hex it?
MATT: Well, this is Yasha's turn.
LAURA: Oh, this is Yasha.
MATT: For your Tasha's Hideous Laughter, I believe
it gets to make a saving throw when it takes
damage, is that correct?
SAM: I will check. At the end of each turn and
each time it takes damage, the target can make
another wisdom saving throw.
MATT: That is a natural 18.
TALIESIN: Wait, take negative d4 to that, too.
MATT: That's right, yes.
SAM: But the target has advantage on the saving
throw if it's triggered by damage.
MATT: Okay, the advantage didn't help it.
TRAVIS: I'm sorry, Matt. Will you add two points
of damage the last one that I just hit--
MATT: Ooh, minus four brings it to 14.
SAM: That's the spell--
MATT: So it still resists it.
TALIESIN: Wait, what?
MATT: It reduced it to 14 but 14 was the DC.
TALIESIN: Okay. Ah, well. But it's still got
Bane.
LAURA: That was still really cool.
TRAVIS: Will you add two points of damage to him
for rage damage, because I didn't add that.
LAURA: You've got Bane.
TALIESIN: You got Baned.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Bane's pretty cool.
MATT: That finishes that go. All righty, Yasha's
turn's done. Beau and Jester.
MARISHA: (heavy breathing) I'm swimming to that
guy. I'm going to Step of the Wind. Can I make it?
MATT: You don't need to, you can get there--
MARISHA: No, that guy.
MATT: Oh, I see.
MARISHA: Can I make it if I Step of the Wind?
LAURA: Wait, before you do it I'm going to Guiding
Bolt him, so you get advantage.
MARISHA: Oh, are you?
MATT: You would have to Step of the Wind to get to
him.
MARISHA: Okay, and then I'll let Jester go first.
LAURA: I'm going to step out and Guiding Bolt him,
that was my plan.
MATT: Okay, go ahead and attempt that.
MARISHA: So as she's swimming--
LAURA: That definitely hits. That's 15 plus
seven.
MATT: Yeah, no, that hits.
(splat noise)
TALIESIN: Hey! Eh.
SAM: Terrible, just terrible.
LAURA: 12.
MATT: 12 points of damage to the shallow priest,
you got it.
LAURA: Then you get advantage!
MATT: With that, you move forward, swimming
through the water, and then Step of the Wind, use
another ki point to get up there, fists at the
ready.
LIAM: Negative two to his AC.
MARISHA: Okay, that is a 22.
MATT: 22 hits.
MARISHA: Not too bad, nine. Nein!
MATT: Nine points of damage on that one.
MARISHA: Second roll does not have advantage,
correct? It has disadvantage?
MATT: Well, that first one should have been just a
regular roll. Did you roll with advantage?
MARISHA: I did.
MATT: Just roll once for the first attack for me
again real fast.
MARISHA: I mean, it's the exact same thing. It's
still 22.
MATT: There you go. For the second attack, it's
disadvantage.
MARISHA: Okay. Don't fuck me, Gil. 17?
MATT: 17 still hits!
MARISHA: Hey, Gil! Nine.
MATT: There you go, nine and nine! You swim
forward, rocketing forward, Aquaman-style, and
then two big hits to its face. The shallow priest
takes the impact, but its body reacts slowly. The
spell that's surrounding it is forcing it to move
and shift at half the pace it normally would.
MARISHA: I just slow-mo go--
LAURA: From behind Beau, off in the distance, I,
at the same time--
MATT: Like rack focuses, from Beau's middle finger
to Jester's middle finger. Perfect, all right.
That finishes Beau's go. Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: Yes, I will come out of the quarters to
move within melee of the one that everybody's
having the party around?
TALIESIN: You may not be able to get to him.
MATT: Oh no, you can because you don't have to
worry about it.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I have 30 feet. I'll take two swipes
with my falchion at disadvantage.
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: They're both 15, so that's a 23 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
TRAVIS: That's seven points of slashing damage,
and the second one is only an 11.
MATT: 11 to hit?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: That misses, unfortunately. As the first one
carves through, the bloody cloud that's forming
from the wounds it's sustaining gets thicker and
bigger. It's looking pretty hurt.
TRAVIS: Cool.
MATT: That finishes your turn?
TRAVIS: Yes.
MATT: Now it's their turn. All right. The shallow
priest, who is currently slowed, is going to use
its action to do its multiattack, so that's two
attacks on you with its bite and claw. It's not
going to use any of its spells.
LIAM: Does it get a multiattack, or does it just
get one attack?
MATT: No, that's right. It doesn't get multiattack
when it's slowed.
LIAM: It's a single attack.
MATT: Then it's going to harpoon you. It's not
going to bother with the claw and the bite. It's
going to pull back with its one harpoon and try
and thrust it into your chest.
MARISHA: Wait, to me?
MATT: Yes.
TALIESIN: With a negative d4.
LAURA: Negative d4.
MATT: Correct. That's two off of it; that brings
it from 19 to 17. What's your armor class?
MARISHA: 19!
MATT: The Bane prevents it from hitting you. As it
goes and thrusts the harpoon forward, it
telegraphs it just enough that, as it leaves, you
(whoosh). It nicks the very edge of your skin,
ever so slightly, and that's it.
MARISHA: I'm like: That's going to get infected
now, in the ocean.
TRAVIS: It's the salt water. It'll be white around
the edges and really sting.
MATT: It's going to attempt to move away.
SAM: It's moving away! Get it!
LAURA: Oh no, it's moving away! Sentinel.
MATT: Go for it. Roll for an attack.
MARISHA: Disadvantage, right?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: It's not good. No, I rolled a two and a
one.
LIAM: Its speed is halved.
MATT: Correct. It would have a swim speed of 40
underwater, so it can only go 20. It manages to
pull out of the range up there, and at the end of
its turn, it gets to--
LIAM: Make a save.
MATT: Both of them make a save because they're
both-- well, that one, no. That one missed the
Slow. That is a 11 plus three, 14.
TALIESIN: Minus four. Or minus a d4.
MATT: Minus four, ten. Yeah, it's still slowed.
TALIESIN: Don't you fuck around with me.
MATT: It's starting to turn around, too, seeing
how things shifted here. It saw the light, and you
can see what little bit of his expression
underwater at this point. They followed this light
to inspect it, thought they had an ambush on a
creature, and suddenly this party emerged. Now,
well, that one's in a really rough spot. This one
is looking like it's about to turn and try and flee.
That's going to end the shallow priest's turn and
the other one's turn. I haven't done that one yet,
right? That one is going to attempt to use its
harpoon against you, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: Since you ran up and carved at it. Or, yeah,
it's going to try that. That's a natural 20.
TALIESIN: Minus-- well, it doesn't matter because
it can still only bring it down to 18, right?
MATT: It's just not a critical hit.
TALIESIN: What?
MATT: Your ability, you're talking about?
TALIESIN: No, I'm saying that with the d4, it
wouldn't bring that attack down at all, would it,
enough to be managed?
MATT: It would still be a critical hit for a
natural 20, but it would then be a total of-- it
would be a 22 still.
TALIESIN: Well, I'm canceling the critical,
anyway.
MATT: You use Channel Divinity once to cancel the
critical on that. As the harpoon comes towards
you, there's this slight, dull green barrier that
seems to slow the penetration of the immediate
lightning-fast pace of this harpoon. It manages to
carve into the front of your armor and pierce
through ever so slightly. It's not a critical hit,
unfortunately.
TALIESIN: Nope.
MATT: That's 11 points of piercing damage to you.
After it carves through and wounds you, it pushes
through the other way, and you manage to roll off.
It would've been far worse damage if Caduceus
hadn't helped you in that moment. It's going to
attempt to move away. Yasha gets attack of opportunity.
TRAVIS: Yes, she does. Reckless for a straight
roll.
MATT: Right, because it is now reckless.
TRAVIS: This is her only reaction. Oh, that's a 20
million. 25.
MATT: That'll hit.
SAM: I don't get an attack?
MATT: No, because you were pushing him. You
weren't moving in that area, so you're not quite
in melee with him.
TRAVIS: 11 plus three is 14. 14 points of slashing
damage.
MATT: 14 points of damage. It turns around and
darts, and Yasha just (whoosh), one swipe with her
sword. She's finishing them off left and right.
LAURA: Yasha is such a badass.
MATT: Ashley, come back!
MARISHA and LAURA: Ashley, come back!
TRAVIS: Or take your time! Barbarians are dope,
yo.
MATT: That finishes the merrow's turn. It did not
go well for them in that brief instance. Nott,
you're up.
SAM: Am I allowed to use my crossbow?
MATT: Yeah. Your crossbow actually--
TRAVIS: Doesn't have any damage to it, yeah.
LAURA: That's what I said.
TRAVIS: You drunk fucker.
SAM: I don't know what you people mean. How far is
they from me?
MATT: They're probably about 40 or so feet from
you.
SAM: I guess I'll doggy paddle up ten feet.
TRAVIS: Like a turtle.
SAM: I'll sea turtle up to them, ten, 15 feet, so
I'm within 30 feet, and then I will fire my
crossbow. It's at disadvantage because it's in the
water?
MATT: Actually, crossbow does not get hit with
that problem because they're piercing. However,
what's your inside range? It's 30 feet?
SAM: 30 feet.
MATT: Then yeah, as long as you're inside range,
then you're fine. You swim up there towards it, as
you're kicking your feet and cocking the bolt back
into it, and go to aim, just within range. You see
it as it's turning around to attempt to swim away
at full speed.
SAM: Did it just take its turn?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: I'm going to hold my action.
LAURA: What? Why?
LIAM: Let him! Let her.
SAM: I mean, no one's near it.
LAURA: Yeah, we're trying not to let it get away.
SAM: No, I know, but aren't you going to go up
there?
LAURA: Nobody will be able to get up there.
TRAVIS: I mean, I could, but I don't want to.
TALIESIN: We don't want them reporting back to
people.
LAURA: I guess, if it just took its turn, then
there will be Yasha--
SAM: There's a whole round. I guess I'm going to
shoot, not knowing what everyone else is doing.
I'm drunk. I'm going to shoot.
TRAVIS: There's not a lot of people that can get
over there.
SAM: It's going to be 24 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
SAM: 27 to hit, or something like that.
TALIESIN: 27?
SAM: It's a lot, but it's only 1d6. Oh hey, it's a
six.
LAURA: Plus?
SAM: Plus five. So 11.
MATT: 11 points of piercing damage to the shallow
priest. You see another plume of dark ichor
pouring out the side of its wound, as the bolt is
now about three or four inches jutting out of the
side of its torso. It glances sidelong at you and
seems to inspire it to try and move faster. That
finishes your turn, Nott?
SAM: Bonus action, shoot again.
MARISHA: Kill it.
SAM: Oh, that's a three.
MATT: Not so much on that one, unfortunately.
SAM: I can reload!
MATT: Finishing that go, Caleb, your turn.
LIAM: From where I'm standing, I see Nott firing
drunkenly up at an angle. I'm going to move
forward, and peek up in the direction that she is
looking, and see the shallow king, and say: Fick
das!. I will cast Magic Missile at level three.
MARISHA: Fick dish?
SAM: It's fish dick.
LIAM: No, it's fick das.
TRAVIS: Not anymore. Fish dick.
MARISHA: Fish dick.
LAURA: (whispers) Fish dicks.
SAM: I'd love a nice fish dick right now with some
tartar sauce.
TRAVIS: I could eat the shit out of those.
LIAM: A total of 19.
MATT: 19 damage. All right, how do you want to do
this?
TRAVIS: Oh, you got him!
LAURA: You killed it?
LIAM: The five of the Magic Missiles will spiral
around Fish Dick's head and come in at a different
angle, and five of them go (impacts).
MATT: Okay. It gets some distance. Caleb, feeling
comfortable, lets the missiles arc past and up and
over as they swirl and gather. They all come in at
once, and this darkened shape, suddenly there's a
flash of arcane energy and this strange little
bubble explosion where it was. The impact happens,
and its arms separate from the impact. They hit in
the torso, blew it apart from the inside. There's
a little cloud of darkness left behind as it
begins to slowly disseminate among the rest of the
sea water around.
LIAM: I will step back in five feet.
TRAVIS: Check their corpses. See if they have
anything on them that can tell where they came from.
SAM: They came from the ocean, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Nott, really, we've got to get over this
fear, man. We got a job to do.
SAM: No, they're from the ocean. Where else would
they be from?
TRAVIS: But where in the ocean, where?
SAM: Isn't all the ocean the same?
TRAVIS: No.
MARISHA: This one's the Great Barrier Reef. I
don't know.
MATT: Here in the shadowed darkness.
LAURA: Can we search the bodies?
SAM: I'll search the bodies.
MARISHA: We search the limbs.
MATT: On the two regular merrow that you
came across, you find that they have their
harpoon. There are definitely teeth upon their
bodies, and claws, as part of their physical form.
They're not carrying much on them, per se, beyond
the equipment they have and a handful of collected
shiny things. A few copper. A key that was
scrounged up that's old and very rusted. Looks
like maybe a handful of--
MARISHA: Zelda has taught us we want the key.
MATT: All right, you have a rusted key.
TRAVIS: Don't do it like that. You know that
shit's important.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: 11 months from now: Do you have the
rusty key?
TRAVIS: If only we could close the barrier to
the--
MATT: The shallow priest, since it was destroyed a
ways off, some of its accoutrements were left to
scatter and float below. You do manage to find, on
what pieces you do scrounge up, a heavy necklace
made of these larger pearls, probably worth a
little bit of gold on the side. That's about it.
LAURA: Can I hold up one of the fish claws and see
if it matches the claws that are on the box?
MATT: Okay.
SAM: I'm going to take the pearl necklace.
MATT: All right, write that down. Inspecting where
the hands meet with the box, no. These are a
different size--
LAURA: You guys, it's not the same fish claws!
It's something bigger that had the box.
SAM: Oh, fuck you.
MATT: Slightly larger. At least, it seems--
SAM: I'm out of here, guys. It's been real.
TRAVIS: Wait, Nott! We're about to cross the area
of the button graveyard that lies beneath the waves.
SAM: Can you hear yourself right now? You sound
pathetic. Pathetic!
TRAVIS: I'm just looking out for you, Nott. I
don't want you to--
SAM: I understand when I'm being condescended to,
even when I'm drunk!
LIAM: All right, let's treat this situation with
the seriousness it demands. I douse the lights and
bring Frumpkin down onto my own head like a mask,
so I can see through Frumpkin vision.
MATT: All right, so you have a--
LIAM: Like a Zorro mask with Frumpkin's beak right
there.
MATT: You see these two dark octopus eyes and then
this little, unshaven grin poking through underneath.
LIAM: Little Zemnian man who's like: Can't believe
I didn't think of this sooner!
TRAVIS: Jester, I'm sure all that action probably
messed up your Locate? Or is it still up somehow?
LAURA: It only lasts for ten minutes, so I mean,
we might be coming to the very end of it.
MATT: I'd say you have a few more minutes on it
still because you didn't cast any other
concentration spells, and you didn't take any
damage, so you're fine.
LAURA: It's over that way. It's still 700 to 800
feet.
TRAVIS: Would you lead the way?
LAURA: Me?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Sure.
TALIESIN: How many people got hurt in that fight,
by the way? Three of us, I think, took damage?
LIAM: No, ein bisschen.
LAURA: You can't hear anything.
TALIESIN: While we're walking, it's going to be
about a ten-minute walk? Is it insane to--?
MATT: You don't know.
TALIESIN: Yeah, as we're walking, I'm going to
start Prayer of Healing, I guess. I know it takes
about ten minutes, but it's a one-spell heal-all.
MATT: Okay, if you want to.
TALIESIN: If that's okay. Everybody gets, oh! 17
points back.
MARISHA: Whoa!
MATT: We'll consider that as you guys are
traveling. You're helming this journey from that
direction? Make a perception check for me,
please.
LAURA: Okay, yeah. 22.
MATT: 22, that's great. As you guys step off of
the edge of your ship's wreckage, and all slowly
sink down to find the floor of the ocean once more
and the subtle grade that continues downward. As
you being to step, following Jester, moving
forward, you see another shape begin to approach.
Jester, you see it first and glance over. It's
another ship.
TRAVIS: Under the water or on the surface?
MATT: No, another ship, sunken, here. You continue
on for another 100 or 150 or so feet, and you see
the shape off to the right of another shipwreck.
LAURA: (whispering) It's a graveyard.
TRAVIS: We're definitely in that shit now. The
song? Y'all remember the song?
SAM and MARISHA: The Diver's Grave!
SAM: Maybe we should go up for supplies.
MATT: The spell fades, but you still know the
general direction of where it was coming from. Up
to you if you want to cast it again or continue on
based on the memory.
LAURA: Let's continue.
MARISHA: Do I see any sources of light?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: Can we move stealthily underwater?
MATT: You can certainly try. You're moving
half-speed because of the water, and you're moving
at half speed beyond that, moving stealthily. So
it's a very slow journey, but you can do it.
MARISHA: 11.
MATT: Okay. Are you guys moving stealthily or
not?
MARISHA and LIAM: Yes.
LAURA: It'll be a slow journey, but we can try to
move.
MATT: Everyone make a stealth check, and make a
stealth check for Yasha as well. You guys are
moving at quarter speed, essentially, to move
underwater.
TALIESIN and LAURA: Six.
SAM and LIAM: 19.
MARISHA: 25.
TRAVIS: 18. Six.
LAURA: Oh no, we're so evil! But the average--
MATT: The average is slightly in your favor.
You're on the edge there. Continuing forward, it
evens out a bit, this gradual, caldera-type valley
that rests here before you. The more you begin to
watch, now that you're keeping an eye for it,
there's a number of areas where wreckage can be
seen, some of it very old. The third ship that you
pass by, heading in the direction that you recall,
has been down here for decades.
MARISHA: Why here though? Why all these shipwrecks
here? Especially if Sabian planted a bomb on your
ship, that's not because of natural causes; is
there something about this area that freaks people
out or something?
TRAVIS: I mean, it's always rough waters and the
storms are frequent. You normally make it through
with good prep, but I didn't know it was like
this.
MARISHA: Do we feel anything? Does it feel weird,
like any type of, I don't know, energy? Something?
Caduceus, I look at Caduceus.
MATT: Make a general wisdom check.
TRAVIS: Her?
MATT: Yeah, since she's attempting to get in tune
with the energy of the atmosphere.
MARISHA: The roll reflects the vaguety of my
question. Vaguety. With a big old seven.
MATT: You concentrate for a moment, and the water
gets slightly warmer.
LAURA: Ooh, I feel better.
MARISHA: Ugh!
MATT: You decide to maybe not walk directly behind
Jester.
TRAVIS: It's all sterile, it's fine.
MATT: With the little bit of travel you're doing--
they're sparse, but there are a number of ships in
this large area that seem to have sunken at
different times throughout the years.
MARISHA: I didn't see any source of light?
MATT: No source of light, no. Jester, however,
who's been at the front keeping a close eye-- a
little ways in as you're peering out and clocking
in each of these shipwrecks as they come across,
you see this little, faint blip of light.
LAURA: Is it moving or is it a blip or a what?
MATT: You see it once or twice again. It's a
little momentary shine.
LAURA: There's like, a light. Yeah.
SAM: Over at the Frankenstein house?
TALIESIN: I was waiting for it.
LAURA: I mean, it's in front of us, yeah? About
how far away is it?
MATT: At this point of travel, it's about 350, 400
feet ahead of you.
LAURA: Is it around where the orb feels like it
is?
MATT: The general direction.
TRAVIS: We need to take a short rest.
TALIESIN: I mean, I don't think that's--
LAURA: I won't get any use out of it.
LIAM: I would.
LAURA: 30 minutes; we want to sit here in the
open, in the graveyard for an hour?
TRAVIS: We keep going, but I think we remember
from the song that that could be the lantern
light, right?
TALIESIN: Regardless, I'm blind regardless.
TRAVIS: Maybe we should fan out a bit.
LIAM: Maybe bioluminescent, just like an
underwater creature.
TRAVIS: Yeah, like a firing line.
SAM: Should I go up and prep the boat?
TRAVIS: No, Nott, I need you here. Maybe give
ourselves ten feet of distance between each other
and fan out.
LAURA: Just think about how much damage you did
when you were barely even trying.
SAM: It's all over me!
TALIESIN: I can't see so I'll stick with
somebody.
LAURA: You can stick with me.
TRAVIS: No, the clerics are not sticking
together.
LAURA: What?
TRAVIS: The clerics do not stay together anymore.
SAM: Yasha and Beau stay together, the clerics
stay together.
MARISHA: Birds of a feather.
TALIESIN: I'll stick with Yasha.
LIAM: I'll be with Nott.
TRAVIS: We'll fan out in a wide line as we
approach instead of as a group.
MATT: All right. If I could get a marching order,
please.
LAURA: Oh, this is like when we first started and
we were in a line. You guys remember, and we were
looking for that witch?
MARISHA: Yeah. Now we're doing it again.
MATT: Who's together and what?
TRAVIS: Am I with you, Jester?
LAURA: Sure.
TALIESIN: Yasha and Clay, and everyone else is
singling or--?
LIAM: Caleb and Nott are together.
LAURA: Then Beau, Jester and Fjord in the
middle-ish.
LIAM: It is like the beginning of the campaign.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: And it will be the end.
(laughter)
MATT: What a nice book end! You all begin to
slowly move forward, keeping your eyes peeled for
any sort of movement with no light. It is
extremely dark here with that faint little bit of
shimmering dull green from above.
LAURA: I should be on the other side of Fjord, so
I'm closer to Caleb.
MATT: There you go. As you guys continue to move
in that direction, some of you begin to see this
light as well. Caduceus first, then you, Caleb,
and Beau. You see it looks like-- imagine if beams
of sunlight managed to roll across a piece of
polished metal, a little shining, shifting sight.
TRAVIS: If she's a big-ass anglerfish I'm going to
be so pissed.
MARISHA: Yeah, nope! I don't want to be eaten. Oh,
god.
LAURA: That's definitely a glimmer pot.
MARISHA: Glimmer pot?
SAM: It was in the song.
MARISHA: Oh. Yeah, because it talks about enticing
people with their lantern light-- treasure.
Treasure in their eyes.
LAURA: Are we going to just walk straight towards
it then or maybe--?
MARISHA: Well, she has the eye.
TALIESIN: I think the notion is that you're not
supposed to look directly in it, some sort of
thing maybe.
LAURA: Oh. Don't look at the light?
TALIESIN: Don't look at whatever the eye or light
or thing-- I don't know.
TRAVIS: Hey. One of us has a familiar that can
look for us, right?
LAURA: Good call.
LIAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Caleb, send Frumpkin up and see what the
lantern light is.
LIAM: Okay, so I can do that. I will send Frumpkin
low along the bottom in the direction of this
thing, stealthily.
MATT: Are you guys staying put or are you
continuing to move forward slowly?
LIAM: Ooh, let's take a looky-loo for the moment.
MATT: You all sit tight for a second, halting your
position. You watch as the octopus makes its way
into the shadow ahead. Caleb, you're focusing, and
it takes a while, but Frumpkin eventually,
following this tiny, shifting bead of golden light
into view. You begin to see towards the center of
where this large valley is. There is a large
cluster of long dead, pale-white coral that
surrounds a rocky stone shelf.
MARISHA: Too real.
TRAVIS: Fucking awesome.
MATT: Make a perception check for Frumpkin.
LAURA: Bones!
MATT: Okay. You see this coral space around. It's
massive; it's maybe 250, 300 feet across, and it's
this dead chunk of coral reef in this vicinity
that amassed around this central stone that rises
up. There's a small crevasse on the side of it
that goes down about 30 or so feet and you can see
fish weaving through.
LIAM: But I did see where this flashing source
was?
MATT: Yeah, but it's occasional.
LIAM: Occasional, okay. So it's not like there was
a creature that Frumpkin and I were able to aim
towards, it was just this thing that was appearing
and disappearing?
MATT: Yeah, and maybe every now and then reorient
the direction that Frumpkin was traveling. As you
come to see this space, does Frumpkin continue to
get closer?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Okay. Frumpkin moves around and it takes a
while because Frumpkin isn't very good at
perceiving right now.
TALIESIN: Thunk.
MATT: You guys are getting a little impatient
here, hearing--
TRAVIS: We're 300 feet away, right?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Can we get within 100 feet?
MATT: If you want to.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Keep moving forward slowly. Nott? I'll hold
Caleb's hand on the other side.
MATT: You all continue to move forward.
TRAVIS: Cautiously.
LIAM: So we're connecting those two groups?
LAURA: Whatever.
LIAM: We're spread out a little.
LAURA: We're spread out.
MATT: Frumpkin is going around and checking and
finds that towards the front of this coral reef
area where this rock shelf is, there appears to be
an open cavern entrance right underneath this
shelf. As Frumpkin ducks down and looks, you can
see another one of the shine; there's a few of them.
TRAVIS: Oh, fuck.
LIAM: Frumpkin will piss out some ink and use a
bonus action to dash back towards the group.
MATT: Frumpkin quickly retracts and finds his way
to the rest of you.
LAURA: What did you see?
LIAM: I tell him to come back and come out and
say: There's a lot of things just ahead of us over
the ridge.
MARISHA: What do you mean, things?
LIAM: Flashing, moving things, things that are
alive.
MARISHA: Oh.
LIAM: More than one, I think.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: More than one?
LIAM: I think so.
MARISHA: That's still in the direction of the
orb?
LIAM: Or something large with many parts, but I
could not tell too well.
LAURA: What was the glimmer?
LIAM: I could not tell you.
LAURA: He didn't see a lot, did he?
LIAM: No, it's murky down here.
TRAVIS: Who wants to take a look?
SAM: Why don't you--?
LAURA: Let's all just run forward and charge over
the ridge.
SAM: How about this? Here's an idea. Go back to
the merrow that we killed, get one of their
tridents or whatever, Disguise Self like you're
one of them, and then you can just swim in like
you're a bad fish.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I don't think that's a--
LAURA: Is it going to work?
TALIESIN: No.
MARISHA: How do you know that the merrow are
friends with these people?
SAM: They're not people.
MARISHA: Well, this group of angry things that
might want to kill us.
TALIESIN: I think they're going to be nervous that
Fjord doesn't speak the language and is moving at
half-- plus he swims funny.
LIAM: I am reaffixing Frumpkin to my face.
MARISHA: He actually swims really well.
TALIESIN: Not for a fish person, though.
TRAVIS: Let's keep moving in, yes? There's nothing
gained by staying up here.
LAURA: Let's keep on going.
LIAM: But maybe--
MARISHA: Someone say it.
TRAVIS: As we approach this area that he's
described to us, this white coral, you said it was
in a valley, like a dip?
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: At the top of where the valley is, is
there any cover that we might be able to get up
behind and then peek down into said valley, like
boulders?
MATT: As you're moving through this area, there
are clumps of seaweed that rise up hundreds of
feet out of view. The base of it is pretty thick
and you could try and move through that. That's
what you are using to stealth as you come through,
darting from section to section of this heavy
underwater vegetation.
LAURA: Can we cut some of the seaweed and hold it
in front of us so that when we move it just looks
like seaweed?
MATT: Sure.
MARISHA: Kind of into it, actually.
MATT, TRAVIS and LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: I'll jump on that train, yeah.
MATT: That's going to itch like a motherfucker in
the morning.
MARISHA: That's okay. We're at the bottom of the
ocean. A lot's going to itch.
MATT: You slowly farm sections of seaweed and
begin to shift your way forward, using it as a
screen. The shifting tendrils slowly shimmy along
in the direction of this coral cluster.
MARISHA: Can we ribbon dance a little bit as we
go?
MATT: There you go.
LIAM: Just you two, right? Is this the group?
LAURA: No, all of us are doing it. Whoever wants
to be stealthy and be a brilliant person, I guess.
MARISHA: I just wrap some seaweed around Caleb.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: Who's at the front of this journey?
Maintaining a similar position?
TRAVIS: I will be.
MATT: Okay. Perception check, and one other person
if they wish to.
TALIESIN: I don't have--
TRAVIS: Oh yeah, he doesn't have darkvision.
LAURA: I mean, I can try--
MARISHA: Sure.
LAURA: Okay.
MARISHA: Oh, go. Yeah, you're leading the pack.
MATT: Both of you guys roll perception.
LAURA and TRAVIS: 17.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: There you go.
MATT: As you both come up to the edge of where the
sandbank here seems to slightly descend in a
series of soft steps before that small ravine
carves down and that large chunk of rock stands
there, you can see the cavern. You see once again
that shifting. It's like a wave of light passes
over. You can see it's coins. A bunch of light
passes over coins that are scattered amongst the
floor of the entrance of this tunnel.
TRAVIS: Oh, there's an entrance to the tunnel,
okay.
LAURA: Can we see what made the light?
MATT: Not from this distance.
SAM: Coins.
MARISHA: This is it.
LIAM: So the ground is littered with coins outside
of this?
MATT: You saw at the entrance a handful of coins
that caught the light, yeah.
SAM: Is Buttonbeard is real?
TRAVIS: Nott, did you think I was lying?
SAM: I thought it was just a legend.
TRAVIS: I'm hurt. Our friendship has taken damage
from this exchange.
SAM: He's real?
TRAVIS: Like Santa Claus, you might have to go up
and check for yourself. Tug on the beard, see if--
MARISHA and TALIESIN: This is a terrible idea.
TRAVIS: But do it by yourself.
MARISHA: This is literally exactly--
LAURA: Don't do that.
SAM: I could go.
LAURA: She's drunk, don't tell her to do stupid
things.
SAM: I could go over and just take a look.
MARISHA: Nope. That's how people die.
TRAVIS: How much do you love buttons?
MARISHA: Fjord. Remember when I said I would check
you when you're being a dick?
SAM: No.
TRAVIS: Yeah, no, I do. Yeah. All right. Fine. We
do it together.
MARISHA: Okay. I don't think we should go in this
way.
TALIESIN: I don't think we should go in this way
either.
TRAVIS: I'm open to suggestions.
MARISHA: It literally says, "Treasure is in their
eyes. They swim for treasure in the lantern
"light." This is a pot. This is a honeypot for
sure.
LAURA: Can we swim around and look for another
entrance to this cavern?
TRAVIS: Don't one of y'all have a copy of
yourselves that you could send in a certain distance?
LAURA: I mean I can only get it 120 feet away from
me.
LIAM: It will also put it at alert even before we
get there. You send it in and it sees this other
Jester and then it is ready for a fight.
SAM: I could send an image of a fish or something
in there and see what happens, or some other type
of creature.
TRAVIS: I mean, if it's a trap that can be sprung
by something going in, maybe fish or maybe a
humanoid, that would probably be good.
LAURA: No, we don't want it to know we're here.
TRAVIS: Well, they're going to know really quick,
right? We're not going to make it in silently,
right? I mean, this is clearly a honeypot, it's a
trap. Might as well spring the trap.
LIAM: Well--
MARISHA: I mean, we could send in an image of a
fish and see, but an image of a fish-- it's not
movement of water, it's not the same.
LIAM: We're on this ridge.
MATT: You're maybe about, since you stopped at
that edge before it begins to descend over, you're
about 60 or so feet from this.
LIAM: What do we see to the sides and-- so there's
a cavern straight ahead facing towards us?
MATT: Yeah. Ahead and facing towards you guys with
a large shelf that protrudes over it that puts it
mostly in shadow, and the coral's built all around
that. If you wanted to try and move around it you
could, but it's about 200 or so feet across.
LIAM: That is my point. I think we quietly go
around and get on top of the house and throw
whatever the bait is in front and then we're back
here for whatever comes out.
SAM: He's very smart.
TALIESIN: I think that's a very reasonable plan.
TRAVIS: I agree. Let's do that.
LAURA: Then I can send Jester down there.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm, let's do it.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Make it so.
MATT: You guys swim across towards the top? All
right. You paddle up as a group, up--
TRAVIS and LAURA: Around.
MATT: Oh, around?
MARISHA: Around, not over top.
LIAM: Take our time.
MATT: You guys move slowly around, still moving
stealthily, to the edges. Then you move up and
over? What are you doing?
SAM: Yes.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Around the sides of the map instead of
just across.
LIAM: Sitting on top of it.
MATT: You get up and slowly descend towards where
the coral is. Your feet find the edges. Some of it
is brittle and as your foot touches, it snaps and
parts of it crumble at the very edges, but nothing
that you feel will alert your presence
necessarily.
TRAVIS: Conserve the reef you guys, be responsible
divers.
MARISHA: It's so sad. Don't drop anchors. Anyway,
continue.
MATT: As you move up to the edge of the shelf, and
you glance over the edge, you see the shadow
entrance of the cavern before you. Once again that
shimmer finds its way across a dozen or more coins
that are visible, partially embedded in the muck
and sand there at the foot of this cavern entrance.
LAURA: Should I try to send my duplicate down?
TALIESIN: One question. This is definitely coral
that we are sitting on top of, right?
MATT: It's bits of coral. When you step out
towards that shelf, the coral recedes and now it's
a protruding large slab of stone.
TALIESIN: It is a protruding large slab of stone
and not a big-ass mouth or anything like that, right?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Oh, come on.
MARISHA: It's always a big-ass mouth.
TALIESIN: I'm looking at it. (raspberry) 11.
LIAM: You just turned 12 years old.
TALIESIN: It's been a day.
MATT: It looks to be stone.
TALIESIN: (exaggerated sighing) I'm putting
tinfoil on my windows now, I'm fucking done.
LIAM: Yes, DM.
TALIESIN: Yes, DM. I think we send Jester.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to create my duplicate.
MATT: Okay. So you use Channel Divinity once and
you send your duplicate to swim down--
LAURA: I'm going to swim down and I'm going to
have her skip around and see the coins and be
like-- and go over and act like she's going to try
to get the coins.
MATT: Okay. You watch as the illusory Jester goes
and performs a great stock video of excited lucky
person, performing the reaction silently.
TRAVIS: Can it please be the infomercials where
she has trouble collecting the coins?
MATT: Have you ever--?
MARISHA: Oh no!
MATT: Don't you hate it when--?
TRAVIS: I can't hold shit.
MATT: 30 seconds pass of Jester doing the song and
dance down there. No reaction.
LAURA: Shit. It might need actual vibrations or--
TRAVIS: No, there's nothing down there. I'll jump
down there and join Jester.
MATT: Okay. Fjord dives off the side and swims
down towards the entrance to this cavern. As you
approach you can see the coins plainly in front of
you. Do you land at the entrance?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Okay. Your feet find soft footfall on the
sediment that has gathered there, knocking up a
little bit of it for a minute before it all
eventually settles once more. Looking inside, make
a perception check.
TRAVIS: Really good on these today. Three.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Shitty rolls at this table.
MATT: You glance inside; there's no source of the
light that you keep seeing flashing by. You look
down and there's no glittering anymore. There's no
traveling light beam, but the coins are there in
front of you. Looking up into the cavern, it
continues in and seems to descend and open up into
a chamber just where your darkvision ends.
TRAVIS: Looks fine.
MATT: The inside is filled with seaweed as well.
It seems to be running up the walls of the
interior, as well as a section of it sitting in
the center of the main chamber. It's a different
color than the seaweed that you've been using to
get here.
TRAVIS: I'll look up where everybody is and I'm
like--
TALIESIN: I think maybe we just don't take the
coins, maybe.
MARISHA: Yeah, maybe no one touches the treasure.
SAM: (distressed noises)
LAURA: Nott, don't. I'm going to hold onto Nott as
we jump down.
MARISHA: Buttonbeard knows who touches his
treasure and who doesn't.
SAM: Is that part of the legend?
LAURA: Yeah. There's more treasure inside if you
make it past the initial treasure.
SAM: I believe you.
TRAVIS: I'm already down here, so I'll summon the
falchion.
MATT: With a slight displacement and popping sound
of the water making room for the falchion as it
emerges, it hums slightly in your grasp, being
this deep in the ocean.
TRAVIS: I'll hold it up. Is the eye doing anything
other than casting that glowing light?
MATT: No, but it is casting it and it is very
present. There is a faint hint of eagerness
brimming from within you.
TRAVIS: Y'all do something before I get reckless.
MARISHA: Let's go.
LAURA: We're heading down.
MARiSHA: I'm going to swim and try not to touch
the ocean floor.
MATT: Okay, so you stay up above. All of you make
your way towards the entrance to this cavern.
LAURA: I'm going to send the duplicate out in
front of us; I've still got 30 seconds left of it.
LIAM: I'm going to keep an eye on our rear.
TALIESIN: The minute I hear things start, I'm
going to cast some light on the walls so I can see shit.
MATT: All right, that will be Caleb at the back,
Jester and Fjord towards the front, everyone else
staying in the center.
SAM: Jester said she was holding me.
LAURA: I am holding.
MATT: That's right, so you will be up with Jester.
As you guys slowly begin to make your way into the tunnel--
LAURA: I let go of Nott as soon as we're into the
tunnel, away from the coins.
MATT: As you release Nott into the water, you guys
begin to take your first steps into the interior
of the cavern. We're going to take a break.
TRAVIS: I knew it was coming, it just--
MARISHA: I know.
TRAVIS: My back's sweating!
MATT: We'll be back here in a minute to see what
this strange chamber seems to hold.
MARISHA: I need to re-listen to the tale of
Dashilla. I need to go find that awesome ukulele
version those girls did.
TRAVIS: The light stopped doing this across the
gold, right?
MATT: Yes, once you stood there, the gold was
seemingly inert.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: We'll be back here in a few minutes. Before
we hop over, we do have the giveaway. Our fine
friends at Wyrmwood are giving away this amazing
wenge dice vault. "Wenj"? How do you pronounce it?
MARISHA: "When-gay."
MATT: "When-gay," thank you. I always mess that
up, I don't know.
MARISHA: We had this discussion today.
MATT: This is awesome, two-tone on each side, dice
vault for giveaway. It is the wenge dice vault
with tiger maple inlay, which is what this is
called-- looks awesome-- and a copy of your own
Pumat t-shirt is in the giveaway as well!
TRAVIS: The one that you wore, Matt?
MATT: I hope not, you don't want that. You really
don't want that. This will be given away to
somebody at the end of the break. To enter, go
ahead and head over to the Critical Role Twitch
chat at twitch.tv/criticalrole during the break
and enter the word intro. I-N-T-R-O. Enter it
once; more than that, you'll be disqualified,
unfortunately, and once again this is only viable
for people in the U.S. and Canada, excluding
Quebec.
MARISHA: Sorry, Quebec.
MATT: I know. We'll have a winner here in a few
minutes, so sit tight, we'll see you soon.
[break]
MATT: Well played, and welcome back everybody!
Before we get started, the winner of our fantastic
giveaway with the Pumat shirt and this awesome
dice vault from our friends at Wyrmwood is
QuickAscension. QuickAscension, congratulations;
we'll get this out to you ASAP.
SAM: QuickAscension!
MATT: QuickAscen-- no.
SAM: We play D&D.
TRAVIS and SAM: We play Dungeons & Dragons!
LIAM: That's all the show is now. That's the rest
of the campaign.
MATT: That will break me. As we left off, you all
were beginning to make your way into this series
of-- there's this whole strange entrance to this
cavern.
TRAVIS: It's just a cave, you guys.
MATT: As you step in the inside, it descends a
bit, like makeshift natural paths, like stairs or
grades that curve around and drop into the central
chamber where you see it goes in two different
directions, to the right and left. In the middle,
there's a large cluster of this purplish-maroon
seaweed. The outside of the leaves have a
teal-ish blue color. It wraps up against the walls
as well. As you swim through and move, the still
water shifts with your movement; you can see some
of it sway and move with your movement.
TRAVIS: Oh fucking Jesus, our stealth is going to
be balls here. What does the floor look like?
Sand, silt, coins?
MATT: Looking down, make an investigation check.
TRAVIS: Can't you just tell me?
MARISHA: Jesus, Travis!
TRAVIS: Yeah, nine.
LIAM: The hell is wrong with us tonight?
MARISHA: What's wrong with you?
TRAVIS: I used it up last week!
MATT: Apparently. Well, if there was a week to use
it.
TRAVIS: That's true.
MATT: You sift your hand through underneath and
feel. You find an errant copper piece left there
that comes up into your fingers. The rest of it
appears to be general sand and soft silt that
clouds a bit around your fingers as you pull your
hand up from mucking around in it. It settles
fairly quickly.
TRAVIS: Do you want to keep your duplicate in
front of us, or is it gone?
LAURA: It only lasts for a minute, but yes, I can
keep her there as long as she lasts.
MATT: Right about now, she vanishes.
LAURA: She's gone.
TALIESIN: We're in the room?
MATT: Yes.
TALIESIN: I may be blind, other than what I can
see, but if I hit Detect Magic, something's going
to light up in my--
MATT: It's certainly possible.
TALIESIN: All right. I'm just saying, if there was
something, I feel like I would know that.
SAM: I could make an image of something ahead of
us.
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast Detect Magic? Why'd I
put a question mark at the end of that?
MARISHA: Detect Magic?
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast Detect Magic really
quickly.
MATT: Okay. Nothing ahead of you seems to give a
magical aura; behind you, ever so faintly.
TALIESIN: The magical aura's coming from the mouth
of the cave?
MATT: It's coming from the mouth of the cave,
towards the top.
TRAVIS: Towards the top?
TALIESIN: Oh! It's where the light's being
projected from, I imagine. But nothing in the room?
MATT: Nothing in the room-- and you do know,
glancing at that magical aura coming from the
entranceway, it is illusory in nature.
TALIESIN: I would also be able to sense something
magic through it that's buried up to three feet down.
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: Okay. I'm not getting any other pings in
here?
MATT: Nope.
TALIESIN: Just that weird thing up front, nothing
else.
SAM: I will cast Silent Image and project a small
dwarf man, about 60 feet in front of us, with a
beard made out of buttons and a pirate hat cocked
to one side, and he's walking all prim and proper,
like he owns the place. He's got a patch on his
eye that's made out of a button!
(laughter)
MATT: Old Buttonbeard's legend lives on! As
Buttonbeard trounces around the central chamber,
no reaction.
TALIESIN: I'm going to ask the kelp: Hey guys,
this feels a little ominous. You'd let me know if
there was something untoward happening around
here, right? Right?
MATT: You express your interests to the kelp.
Well, seaweed, technically. Kelp is a little more
shallow-based, yeah.
TALIESIN: Thank you, that is fair.
LIAM: What on earth are we doing?
TRAVIS: Just hold on, octopus-head.
MARISHA: Apparently, kelp is shallow.
SAM: You're wearing an octopus, he's talking to
seaweed, there's a Buttonbeard in front of us.
This is totally normal.
LIAM: Mine is functional!
MARISHA: (sings circus tune)
MATT: You're all still standing in the entranceway
as you come down into this central chamber. It's
about 35, 40 feet from side to side and then it
branches off to the right and left ahead of you--
LAURA: Which way are we going?
MATT: There is that central cluster of seaweed
that is coming up and going against the ceiling
and you can see on the walls, it's still riding
along the edges.
TRAVIS: We're going to the right.
SAM and LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: I'm proud of you for that. Hopefully
that'll be the first good roll you've made tonight.
TRAVIS: Did you hear anything from your talk?
TALIESIN: To be fair, they don't really talk back,
but sometimes they can acknowledge these things.
Besides, it's polite.
TRAVIS: Can we move towards the fork?
MATT: You move towards the fork. The chamber
itself is oval-like, but in the center of the
chamber is where there's a mass of the seaweed, so
you'd have to curve around it to get to either exit.
LAURA: Are there any pebbles on the ground or
anything?
MATT: There are some wayward stones that you could
probably--
TRAVIS: This seaweed in the middle of the chamber,
have we seen anything like this before?
MATT: No, all the seaweed in this chamber is a
different color than what you've seen when you
came in. Everything else had a greenish-blue tint
to it, this has a deep maroon-purple with a blue
outline across the exterior of each little thread
of leaf.
TRAVIS: What was the color of the fruit in the
fucking temple? Weren't they like--?
MARISHA: I think so.
LAURA: I think they were yellow. I pictured them
like mangoes.
MATT: Yeah, they were mango-esque.
LAURA: They were mango-esque.
TRAVIS: But the inside was purplish and red,
right? Well, because it was obviously being fed blood.
LAURA: It was, it was bloody.
TRAVIS: Sorry, trying to make a connection where
there might not be one.
MARISHA: No, I was with you.
TRAVIS: Yeah, no deal, okay.
LAURA: Can I toss one of the pebbles at a cluster
of--?
MATT: It hits it, moves with the impact with the
faint bit that gets hit. There's no reaction.
TRAVIS: Did we want to separate and go around and
meet on the other side?
LAURA: What if there's something in the middle of
the cluster? Can we use a stick or something? You
want to use your staff and push the cluster?
TALIESIN: I literally can't see anything right
now.
LAURA: Oh, there's a cluster of kelp in the middle
of the room here.
TALIESIN: Things tend to live.
TRAVIS: Anybody have any objections to going to
the right?
SAM: No, let's just do it.
TRAVIS: Let's do it.
SAM: Fuck it, right? We're all going to die down
here anyway, it doesn't matter.
LAURA: Don't you think there might be something in
the middle of all the kelp though?
TRAVIS: There might be, but we'll keep an eye on
it as we move around to the right; I just have a
very strong feeling about going to the right. It's
based off of, really, gut-- I'm right handed, so
we're going to go to the right.
SAM: Let's do it.
MARISHA: All right.
LAURA: Do we see bubbles in the water at all?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LAURA: Ten. No! That's a nine, so that is a 13.
MATT: Oh, just you, okay.
TALIESIN: I would ask permission before putting a
light in the kelp to see if there's anything in there.
MATT: No bubbles. There's no aeration of the
interior here.
TRAVIS: Can we see a top to this chamber?
MATT: Glancing up, yeah, you can see where the
seaweed gathers and bunches up towards meeting it
from the walls in the center of the chamber. It's
maybe 15 feet above you. It's not terribly tall.
TALIESIN: When was the-- yeah, all right.
TRAVIS: Okay, can we start moving to the right?
Will we be able to see a clear divide between the
two left and right passages?
MATT: You can see the two sides, yeah.
TRAVIS: It's a divide that goes from ceiling to
floor, right? It's not some fucking uvula that's
hanging right there, waiting to dangle?
MATT: It looks like it's a cavern.
TRAVIS: Okay. You know what I'm saying?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm with you.
LIAM: I am not. What are we doing?
SAM: We're going to the right.
LIAM: Let's go to the right, then.
TRAVIS: Hey Nott, stab the floor really fast.
SAM: What?
TRAVIS: Stab the floor with your dagger.
SAM: Shortsword.
MATT: Okay. It goes a few inches into the soft
floor of the chamber before it hits stone.
SAM: It's been pacified.
TRAVIS: Thank you. We'll continue to the right.
MATT: Okay. You take your first step and you watch
something drift across the entrance from wall to
wall. Some faint glowing figure-- and is gone.
TRAVIS: (yelling) I don't like it!
MARISHA: Shut up! Oh.
TRAVIS: It's in my head!
MARISHA: Oh, okay.
TALIESIN: Did it trip my Detect Magic sense at
all?
MATT: Not magic sense, no.
LAURA: Is it undead, or is it a ghost?
MARISHA: (whispering) It's Dashilla!
TALIESIN: I'm going to do another detect undead
really quickly.
MATT: Okay. Give me the specifications on that
one.
TALIESIN: All right. Eyes of The Grave. As an
action you know the location of any undead within
60 feet of you that isn't behind total cover and
isn't protected from divination magic until the
end of your next turn.
MATT: Okay, got you. How long does it last?
TALIESIN: Six seconds.
MATT: Okay. We'll say for the purposes of this,
this is a reaction to seeing this figure pass by.
You definitely get an undead sense from whatever
this figure is, and then it merges with the wall
and is gone. It appeared to be loosely humanoid in
the brief glimpse you saw.
TALIESIN: We have undead.
TRAVIS: No.
SAM: It's a ghost ship!
MARISHA: Is it going to be your crew?
TRAVIS: I don't know!
MARISHA: Wait, we're not on your ship anymore.
TRAVIS: Now we're in the mouth of a beast! Ducey,
what's going on, brother?
TALIESIN: I don't know, I'm literally blind. I
want to light this--
SAM: Are you feeling scared down here now all of a
sudden?
TALIESIN: Just to start, I'm going to throw some
light into the center of the kelp.
MATT: Okay. In the center of the kelp forest that
sits in the center of the chamber, a source of
light begins to emanate, like a lantern covered in
soft, diffusing material. The beams protrude and
lighten up the chamber like a lantern. As it goes
through, you have a better view of the interior.
You notice that the kelp forest is cluttered with
strips of cloth, bones, two or three merrow
corpses that have long decomposed and look tangled
and wrapped and are held towards the ceiling.
There are a handful of what might have been human
remains tangled in that same seaweed.
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: I think this thing is carnivorous.
MARISHA: The seaweed?
TALIESIN: Yep.
TRAVIS: I'd say burn it down, but, you know...
(singing) under the sea.
MARISHA: (singing) Doo doo, ba doo.
SAM: Should we leave?
TALIESIN: I think we should leave.
TRAVIS: You know what, who really needs the
sphere? Should we just go back to the boat? No? I
didn't mean it either. All right, we move
forward.
MARISHA: I don't think anyone should touch the
seaweed.
TALIESIN: Yeah, lights off.
LAURA: Wait, lights off?! Why lights off?!
MATT: The light vanishes once more and darkness
comes to the chamber.
TRAVIS: That shit's going to reach out. I don't
know how to stop it.
MATT: Do you guys continue to the right chamber?
SAM: Sure.
LIAM: Yes, please.
LAURA: I'm holding my hands up like this in case
anything reaches for me. And my axe in my hand, too.
TALIESIN: I've still got a few minutes of Detect
Magic, so if anything--
MATT: Understood. Fjord? You just have this gentle
chill on the back of your head, like something
frozen just caressed the back of your skull and is
gone.
SAM: Gentle chill, like a Jack Johnson song.
TRAVIS: Don't do this to me! Everyone else at this
table is less susceptible to shit like that! Don't
do it to me, okay! I don't need this right now!
Cool, no problem.
LAURA: Just don't make it like Ring girl, okay? Or
like The Grudge.
TRAVIS: Oh, stop, why would you want to put it out
there?!
LIAM: Or do.
TRAVIS: (shushing)
MATT: You continue forward through this tunnel
around the seaweed cluster in the center. Moving
through in the same order that you situated there.
There's just enough room, maybe ten feet across,
to stay comfortably, you'd want to single-file it.
As you walk through, the edges of the seaweed
begin to drift forward, seemingly drawn in by the
warmth of your bodies.
MARISHA: What?
LIAM: Wait, it's drawing towards us, or it's
pulling in?
MATT: It's pulling in. There's the central section
and the wall. As you begin to move through, it
begins to slowly pull in to close in towards you.
LAURA: Can we freeze it? Can we cast cold on it or
something?
MARISHA: Can we move fast?
MATT: Moving quickly through, it's not moving
rapidly. As soon as you see this, you begin to
dart through. The only person who would be in
danger is the very end. Caleb, since you're at the
back, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw
for me. Because as all of you start darting
through and making your way, they're drifting and
tangling in closer together.
LIAM: Oh jeez, it jumped up. Well that's a six.
Seven.
MATT: Okay. As you move forward, you feel a bit of
it touch your shoulder, and then it wraps around
and pulls you against the wall. You guys hear this
(slamming) behind. There's a shift of water. You
watch Caleb get yanked towards the right side of
the chamber. It's currently (sucking). The seaweed
begins to snake its way around. Caleb, you take
five points of poison damage and are grappled.
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: Can I send two shots of Eldritch Blast at
the stuff around it, the kelp?
MATT: Sure, I'll say two attacks with disadvantage
because you're having to aim them to try to keep
around him.
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast Light really quickly,
too.
MATT: Okay, the light fills the space.
TRAVIS: First one's a 19 and not a natural 20, but
a 16.
MATT: Okay, yeah. Both hit, go ahead and roll
damage.
MARISHA: B-b-blast!
TRAVIS: 12 and--
MARISHA: Eldritch B-b-blast!
TRAVIS: 26 points of damage.
MATT: Okay, each side-- Both blasts of Eldritch
Blast impact the sides of the cavern wall with a
dull (thud). The clusters of seaweed that
currently wrap around Caleb are torn to the point
where you have enough strength to pull yourself
free, breaking the grapple. You shrug them off of
you. As you're touching with your fingers, your
fingers spike with pain. No additional poison
damage, necessarily, but you know staying would
continue to do so.
LIAM: I'm poisoned?
MATT: You are not poisoned. You just took poison
damage. You manage to pull it away and catch up
with the rest of the crew. You guys are heading
towards the right chamber, which begins to rise up
a bit before leveling off about 15 feet above and
about 20 feet ahead of you. The walls are still
covered in this seaweed in chunks. About every
five or so feet, you see another cluster, and
they're a bit scattered around the interior. A
large portion of this whole chamber network seems
to be housing this same type of plant.
TRAVIS: We're going to move fast, and I'm going to
keep Eldritch Blast charged, and if anything
starts to reach closer than other areas of it.
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: You're good at this.
LAURA: I'm going to keep Sacred Flame prepped as
well, to release it then if anything gets attacked.
MATT: Okay, so you're readying the spell?
LAURA: Yeah. It's just a cantrip.
MATT: Yeah, so you're fine.
SAM: Six!
LAURA: Okay, well, get rid of it then!
TRAVIS: I drink out of that.
MATT: Okay. Jester, you feel this-- like a burst
of brain freeze for a second-- like something cold
tickles the inside of your head. And it's gone.
LAURA: This is weird.
SAM: What happened?
LAURA: It felt like I drank a Slurpee or
something.
MATT: Caduceus, you see something shadowy shift
long down the hall up and above that barely catches
your attention before it's gone.
TALIESIN: Do I even have to bother, or do I know
what that is?
MATT: You don't. It's not the same as before.
TALIESIN: It's something different?
MATT: From what you saw before, it was giving a
faint, pale glow and had a ghostly presence to it.
This is just a movement in dark shadow.
TALIESIN: Oh, then I'm going to do the Eyes of the
Grave one more time the minute I see it. There's
something else down here too.
SAM: Something else? Oh, great.
LIAM: I'm feeling a little weary. Does anyone want
to help me out a little bit?
SAM: Oh, are you hurt, Caleb? Caleb's hurt.
Someone heal Caleb.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: You're going to take it?
LAURA: Sure.
LIAM: Yeah, teamwork.
TRAVIS: Yasha will--
TALIESIN: Yasha can--?
MATT: Yeah, she has an ability.
TRAVIS: If you want to save your stuff.
TALIESIN: Yeah, let's have Yasha--
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Yasha will heal Caleb for seven hit points
using Healing Hands.
SAM: Thanks, Ashley.
LIAM: What happened just now?
TRAVIS: Seven points. Healing.
LIAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: Did you take your 17 earlier also?
LIAM: No.
TALIESIN: From Prayer of Healing.
LIAM: I didn't know that was for me.
TALIESIN: That was for everybody.
LAURA and TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Did you need the seven?
LIAM: Can't do the math right now.
MARISHA: No.
LIAM: Then I'm good.
MATT: Yeah, so Yasha holds onto that, then.
TALIESIN: Everyone was.
LIAM: I thought that was for one person.
TALIESIN: Did a group thing.
MATT: All right. So continuing on?
TALIESIN: Yeah. There's something up ahead.
SAM: I'm going to look for traps.
MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a perception
check to see if you notice anything strange about
the interior.
SAM: 18 and a five.
MATT: Okay. Looking about the area, it looks like
a natural cavern. You don't see much that would
catch-- any some sort of dissembled or trap
mechanism with a trigger.
SAM: We're fine. Come on.
LIAM: I can light it up in here if we want. Or do
we want to?
TALIESIN: They know we're here now.
TRAVIS: Light it up.
LIAM: Ja?
TRAVIS: Yes.
LIAM: All right. I'm going to put the string of
globules up the passage.
TRAVIS: Let's at least unrestrict Caduceus.
MATT: Okay. The globules appear like lights coming
on segmented down a long hallway. As the final one
glows, right behind it, you see the figure of a
man looking at you, white and pale, who then steps
back into the wall and vanishes.
LAURA: Oh! This is really terrible!
TRAVIS: (stammering) Into the wall?
LAURA: He was a ghost!
SAM: While we're looking at that, I'll take the
seaweed that we used as camouflage before. You
know the thing where you put an orange on your
mouth? I'm going to do that with seaweed.
MARISHA: Eww.
SAM: I'm going to look up at Fjord and be like:
It's already got me! Ah!
TRAVIS: Nah. No big deal. An improvement.
(laughter)
SAM: I'm hideous. No, he's right. I'm hideous.
TRAVIS: Okay. That's the worst thing I've ever
heard or seen. Did I recognize the face?
MATT: No. Because you're the closest up there,
since you're helming it in with darkvision--
Darkvision wouldn't matter so much in this
instance. But the figure you saw looked to be male
wearing loose fitting clothing, sunken eyes with
no actual eyes inside the sockets, pale with a
faint ghostly glow about their visage. A line of
rope wrapped around one arm. Multiple loops. It
just stared at you before stepping back into the
wall and vanishing.
TRAVIS: God! Stop describing it!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: We go forward, right? Yeah.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LAURA: Do you really want this? Do you really want
this orb though?
TRAVIS: It's still in this direction, right?
LAURA: (nervous) I don't know.
LIAM: At least so far they are not harassing us.
TRAVIS: Yeah that's true. More the plants than
anything.
LAURA: Did he look menacing-- the guy? Did he just
look like--
MATT: No expression. Just blank and cold. Absent
of any real emotion before it dissipated.
TRAVIS: Yes, we'll keep going forward.
MATT: Continuing down this path, you climb or swim
up the brief 15-foot incline to get to the next
tunnel path where the orbs were spread out to
continue. You move through and the elements of
seaweed that were still in there are shifting from
the water displacement ever so slightly. As you
move through, same order you guys are going
through?
SAM: Sure.
MATT: All right. That being the case, as you push
through I need Caleb once again to make a
dexterity saving throw.
LIAM: Expeditious Retreat! As a reaction.
MATT: Okay. Go for it. I'll let you do that.
LIAM: Yep.
MATT: All right. You cast Expeditious Retreat. You
manage to dart forward and out of the grasping
hands of the seaweed through the use of your
spell. You catch up, now darting forward through
everybody next to Jester and Fjord.
MARISHA: Yeah, you want to be in the middle.
LIAM: Whatever I've got ten minutes of zip, baby!
Let's go forward.
MATT: Okay. There. We are moving forward in that.
TALIESIN: Just for fun, I'm going to tap
Resistance on you. Well I'm just going to give
you-- if anything happens in the next minute you
can add a d4 to any saving throw.
MATT: Okay. Following the tunnel down for another
15 to 20 or so feet it curves around to the left.
Do you continue and curve around the edge?
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
MATT: You come around the corner and look. You
guys are at the front. I need Jester and Fjord to
make-- since you have the globes, you can move the
globes ahead if you want to.
LIAM: I'll say that they're 20 feet ahead of us
and 20 feet behind.
MATT: So you do not have disadvantage on your
perception checks.
LAURA: 23.
TRAVIS: Six.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a perception check,
then.
MARISHA: It's the same thing you rolled last
time.
TRAVIS: I don't understand.
MATT: Well, you're further back. We'll get to you.
Because they're the ones at the front, they get to
do this first.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
MATT: But you're safer in the middle. What did you
get?
LAURA: 23.
MATT: As you turn around the corner and look, the
path continues for another 20 or so feet in this
tunnel before it descends into a much larger
chamber. The seaweed gets thicker towards the
mouth of this chamber. From the little bit of
glowing orbs that begin to extend over that edge
that goes into it, what little bit of light hits
bits of gold coins scattered all throughout the
floor of that next chamber.
MARISHA: Don't touch them.
TRAVIS: Do we dare steal a glance at the seaweed
that's around? Are there also strips of cloth and
bone and body?
MATT: Yes, they are, but that center cluster
seemed to have quite a few that were in there.
These in the walls only have a few scattered
pieces of parts. No full bodies here in the hallway.
LAURA: Less people made it this far.
MATT: Beau, as you're coming around that corner
and people are looking off to the side, you glance
over your shoulder and see for a split second an
older man with a curled and scraggly beard that
goes down to about mid-chest. The eyes are
missing. You see vacant, dark sockets. The jaw is
slack-jawed and open as it looks towards you. I
need you to make a charisma saving throw, please.
MARISHA: Oh fuck. Not what I'm great at. Don't
fuck me, Gil. 12. Not good.
MATT: It leans in towards you and-- not yet. It
leans in towards you and you feel this cold
sensation over your whole body. Your muscles lock
in place and your consciousness goes dark. Out of
the corner of your eye you see some sort of
ghostly movement. You look over and see Beau rest
into a standing position on her back foot.
TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to Turn Undead really
quickly, and then I'm going to go over and deal
with you.
MATT: What's the DC on that?
TALIESIN: The DC on Turn Undead is-- let me hit
my--
TRAVIS: As she's resting on her back foot, her
eyes are open?
MATT: Eyes are open, yeah.
TALIESIN: That's a wisdom saving throw? It's right
here so it's-- why is it not saying these things?
LAURA: I don't know. Why doesn't yours have it?
TALIESIN: Mine's weird. Wisdom saving throw. Oh,
so is that my--
MATT: Whatever your spell DC is.
TALIESIN: Oh. 16.
MATT: 16. No, fails by one. It's a 14 plus one,
15.
TALIESIN: Fuck off, ghost.
MATT: Being a specialist in undead and already
preparing for the presence here, you glance out of
the corner of your eye just in time to see the
essence of this spiritual form drift into Beau's
body. As you watch that moment of consciousness
fade from her face, as the presence of Beau goes
cold and whatever was in this tunnel begins to
come to the forefront, you take your staff and
slam it into the ground. This wave of light energy
emerges. It impacts all of you and the water gets
suddenly warm around you. As it blows past Beau,
you see strands of hair get blown back and with
that, that same ghostly old man body jettisons out
the back of her and drags down the hallway into
darkness and disappears.
TALIESIN: Not cool, man. Not cool.
MARISHA: What just happened?
SAM: She's back?
MARISHA: Was I Traci again?
LAURA: You had a ghost that just fell out of you.
Are ghosts going to be trying to take over our minds?
MARISHA: Caduceus, did you just do that?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Thank you.
TALIESIN: He was creepy, man. Come on.
LAURA: Have you had ghosts try to take you over
before?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LAURA: Whoa. Has it ever worked?
TALIESIN: Not that I know of. I hope. I mean,
would you know?
MARISHA: I don't know. Do I know?
MATT: You have an essence after what just happened
that something weird happened and you lost yourself.
TRAVIS: I have a feeling that if these dead people
invade our bodies, they're going to walk us into
the walls. We should huddle together and keep a
hand on each other. If one of us stops moving,
stop that person. Okay? We need to move forward
quickly.
TALIESIN: Is it worth cutting through some of this
stuff?
LAURA: Well, I can use Sacred Flame on the ones in
front of us and see if it will make it open in the opening?
TALIESIN: I can join you for that.
TRAVIS: Yeah, if it's closed our way forward, yes.
Otherwise, we should move quickly.
MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
you glance back in the tunnel where you came from
where Caduceus had jettisoned that spirit back,
and at the very edge of the light, you can see
about 12 or so of these ghostly figures standing
there, unmoving--
LAURA: Why are they facing us? I hate this, Fjord.
This is really terrible.
TALIESIN: Let's find what we're looking for and
get out of here.
SAM: Keep going!
TRAVIS: With the hustle. I mean, on the hustle. On
the quick march.
MATT: All right. Pushing towards and following the
orbs gliding forward, the mouth of this
entranceway before it opens up is where it looks
like two larger clusters on each side of this
seaweed is through. You are what?
LAURA: Sacred Flame-ing one of the clusters and
he's going to Sacred Flame the other cluster.
MATT: They auto-fail saving throws. They're
seaweed.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Thank you. It's been a long day.
MATT: Roll damage. We'll see if it's enough to
clear the way for a moment. You as well, Caduceus.
LAURA: Four radiant damage.
TALIESIN: Damage?
LAURA: 2d8.
TALIESIN: That's seven radiant damage.
MATT: Okay. The side on Caduceus' edge of the
wall, you watch this blast of radiant energy
emanate from the side of the wall and blow out the
center part. Some of the seaweed get released and
begins to scatter and float towards the top. Your
side blasts, but it doesn't quite tear all the way
through. You guys begin darting forward on the
right side. Caleb, you're the first one there.
LIAM: Has it been over ten minutes?
MATT: No. You're still Expeditious Retreat?
LIAM: Yeah, it lasts ten minutes.
MATT: All right. You dart inside the chamber ahead
of everybody else. You're now in the center of
this open chamber as you stop with the globes
around you to take in the atmosphere. The rest of
you are now having to catch up. Yasha needs to
make a dexterity saving throw as well.
SAM: Yasha.
MATT: She gets advantage because she can see it,
because of her Danger Sense.
TRAVIS: Okay, that's right. Natural 20.
LAURA: Oh, for Yasha.
MATT: She just-- actually no, she shoulder checks
the seaweed and does not give a shit.
MARISHA: It works for Yasha.
TRAVIS: (as Yasha) No problem.
MATT: You guys all begin to push forward. This
chamber is larger than what you came in through.
It's about 50 to 60-foot diameter, continues in
for about 80 or so feet, and the height goes to
about 30 to 35 feet. All the walls here are
covered in this seaweed. Make a perception check,
two of you who are helming the view on this.
LIAM: I'm already in there.
MATT: That's true. Yeah, you make one first.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we'll take it. 23.
LIAM: 15.
MATT: Okay. Glancing around, you can see areas
where the seaweed is slowly shifting from the
movement of Caleb's Expeditious Retreat. What was
once still shifts, and you can see elements of the
stone wall behind it. Your eyes barely make out a
handful of small carvings in the wall. Small runic
letters that are not in line, but at angle
sporadically carved at places, but where the
seaweed moves over and blocks it.
TALIESIN: Does my Detect Magic-- which I think is
just barely still up? I don't feel like this has
been a ten-minute venture since that.
MATT: Yeah, I'd say you're pushing the edge on
this one.
TALIESIN: It's not much longer, I know.
MATT: I'd say as you step into this chamber-- are
you heading to the center of it?
TALIESIN: No, I'm just coming in and looking
around.
MATT: As you're standing at the mouth of this,
just past the edge, you do not detect anything
particularly magical. Then as you take your first
step into the chamber, you see this. You almost
run into it. In the middle of this chamber, there
is a small two-foot pedestal and a disc, a stone
disc about that wide and about two feet from edge
to edge that is resting on it but at an angle. It
looks old. It looks weathered and there appears to
be a spiral of runes, two sets of them, that curve
inward around each other before merging in the
center with one singular sigil where they meet.
LIAM: Are these arcane glyphs, or is this
language?
MATT: They are arcane glyphs. If you'd like to
make an arcana check, if you want to take a moment
to study.
MARISHA: Is this our answer as to why this entire
area eats ships?
TRAVIS: Could be.
LAURA: Is Uk'otoa here?
TRAVIS: No. Well--
SAM: Yes, sort of.
MARISHA: It's a temple?
LIAM: 24.
SAM: It's one of the three gates, right?
TRAVIS: Could be. There would need to be a spot
for an orb.
MARISHA: Is this what Vandren was going for?
TRAVIS: It's not what I saw in my dream.
MATT: These runes, this whole incantation, this
enchantment or whatever that sits in this is old,
pre-Calamity, Age of Arcana-level magic. It is
dormant currently. It looks like there is
something that is required to infuse this object
with power or to get it to use whatever its
enchantment is. The more you look over it, you
realize the power's beyond anything you've cast.
The nature of it seems to be conjuration, and it
seems to have a lot of the base runes that you've
used to manipulate fire, you've used to manipulate
earth. It's elemental in nature. You continue to
look over it and get the sense that this is
triggered by some sort of-- there's a physical
material that needs to be brought to this table or
brought as part of this ritual, and in doing so
would conjure some sort of powerful elemental
force.
LIAM: Did I pick up on the fact that Caduceus was
looking at glyphs in the wall? Did I see those as well?
MATT: No, you did not.
LIAM: No? Okay.
MATT: You do feel this faint, cold, brushing
sensation at the back of your skull.
LAURA: What the fuck is that?
TALIESIN: I think it's maybe time for another
detect object. I'll take this one. I'm going to
cast Locate Object.
MATT: Okay. You cast Locate Object, focusing on?
TALIESIN: On the stone.
MATT: You step forward and can see in the far,
back side of the chamber. As you guys get a look
around, clustered in with the base of the walls
where the seaweed is thick, you begin to see as
the light around the chamber comes to touch it,
and you see it first, there are piles of salvaged
goods: gold and silver dishware. Clusters of
coins: gold, platinum, copper, silver, all in
various levels of grime that have gathered on
them, but the shine still shows through in places.
You can see tools that were haphazardly pulled and
gathered and jammed into pockets in the walls.
It's like a nightmarish Ariel's grotto, almost.
You immediately realize that this is all things
that have been salvaged and pulled from all the
ships that have sunk and brought in. The floor
you've been stepping on, that's been somewhat soft
to the occasional crunch, you glance down and
realize, is just bones. Just hundreds of human and
humanoid bones that have all been gently dusted
with the general sand and silt of the interior of
this chamber.
MARISHA: It feels like everything is being sucked
to this location.
TRAVIS: 30-foot ceiling, right?
MATT: There is a throne, a chair of some kind that
sits on the opposite side of the room. That's at a
slight angle, resting against the stone, and you
immediately know that's precisely where the object
you seek resides, somewhere around or with that.
TALIESIN: It's by the chair.
LAURA: There's a chair?!
TRAVIS: How far away is it?
MARISHA: Yeah, what do you mean chair?
MATT: You guys are standing towards the entrance,
like the stairs and the decline that leads inside.
Caleb's the only one that's actually in the center
of the chamber by this table, this thing that
you've been studying.
LAURA: Where are the ghosts? They're just hanging
out?
MATT: You glance over your shoulder?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: About 15 feet behind you.
(yelling and groaning)
MATT: Not moving. Just looking at you.
LAURA: (distressed yell)
TRAVIS: We're being herded. That's great.
LIAM: What you told me was that studying this
thing, it seems to require elements to set it in
motion? How did you describe it?
MATT: As you're getting closer, because the arcana
is not an immediate thing, it's a slow process of
study. There's a heavy elemental conjuring that
this is capable of doing. It's very old, primal
magic. Looking at the stone, the stains, and the
interior of these ruins, there is distinctly a
dark brown tint to elements of this table.
SAM: Some might say amber?
MATT: As you scrape some of it with your
fingernail, it flakes off. It has a consistency
you're familiar with, that of a coagulated blood.
SAM: Ooh.
MATT: Caduceus, as you're looking over towards the
throne, you look up and about ten feet above the
throne, standing up in the seaweed holding onto
the clusters of it, you see a female humanoid form
mostly in shadow, hair down over the front of the
face, one yellow eye peeking through on this side,
and one half-open yellow eye glancing through, up
against the wall.
TALIESIN: She's right above the throne.
MARISHA: The song. Her hungry eye. It's in her
fucking head.
MATT: You watch as she scrambles across the side
of the wall, behind the seaweed, and is gone.
SAM: She's gone?
LAURA, MARISHA, and TRAVIS: (yelling) No!
MATT: Let's roll initiative.
(yelling)
LIAM: It is The Ring!
LAURA: Oh my god! We're fighting The Grudge. I'll
throw up.
MARISHA: Natural 20!
TALIESIN: 19! Plus one, so that's 20.
LAURA: Woo! I got 20 as well!
TALIESIN: Oh fuck.
LAURA: Just two clerics at 20.
SAM: This sucks.
TRAVIS: Oh shit. What?!
LAURA and MARISHA: Whoa!
SAM: Two map night!
TRAVIS: Oh fuck.
TALIESIN: Fuck. This is so much worse than I was
imagining.
SAM: Where are we?
LIAM: There's the throne over there.
MATT: This is the chamber you're in right now.
This is the entrance.
TRAVIS: Hey, look! We picked the right way to go!
MATT: Yeah, you did.
TRAVIS: What was in the other ones?
TALIESIN: An encounter.
MATT: So, Caleb, you are up against here. The rest
of you are just coming down the entrance this way.
Tell me whereabouts you were placed around the
base.
MARISHA: Fuck, that's tiny.
LAURA: I feel like I would still be on the stairs
because I was looking back at the ghosts.
MATT: That's true. I'll put you and Caduceus kind
of up towards the top, there. You guys are back here.
MARISHA: I'd have been near Fjord, probably.
MATT: Yeah, so you'll be up here with the rest of
them. The shape you saw up in this direction
before it vanished.
SAM: She's just a little thing!
LIAM: So is Nott the Brave.
TRAVIS: Why would you even say that to the DM? You
know how much shit he has back there?
SAM: Yeah, it's just one person.
LAURA: Stop it.
SAM: Didn't look like she even had any weapons!
TRAVIS: Did you ever see Cabin in the Woods? Do
you know how bad this is going to get?
MATT: Dashilla rolled really good initiative. So,
who's up first? 25 to 20.
MARISHA: 24.
LAURA: 20.
TALIESIN: 20.
SAM: Whoa.
TRAVIS: Beau, Jester, and Cad both have 20s?
LAURA: No, Beau had 24.
MATT: All right. 20 to 15.
TRAVIS: I had a 16.
MATT: Fjord at a 16. 15 to ten.
SAM: 12.
MATT: Nott. Ten to five.
TRAVIS: Yasha had a seven.
LAURA: Oh god. Caleb.
MATT: Caleb?
LIAM: Four.
MATT: All righty.
LIAM: I'm assuming the ten minutes for Expeditious
is gone from studying the table?
MATT: No, I'd say it took you two or three minutes
to study, so Expeditious is still on the table.
LIAM: A minute or two left. Okay. Great, I'll take
it.
MATT: Beginning of this round. The only person
that's seen this entity is Caduceus.
TALIESIN: I can't see them anymore?
MATT: No. They seem to have shifted into this
thick forest of seaweed that tends to wrap around
all the walls of this chamber. Beau, you're up
first.
MARISHA: I don't see anything. I look around?
MATT: You can use your action to try and perceive
if you want to.
MARISHA: I go: Caduceus! Then I look around and
see if I see anything.
MATT: Okay, so you use the search action. Roll a
perception check.
MARISHA: (whispering) God fucking bullshit.
Eight.
MATT: Eight? Unfortunately, no. You look around
the vicinity and glancing up around, and you see
movement from the water that's being disturbed,
but no sight of any particular entity.
MARISHA: I move towards Caleb and kind of
bodyguard him. I am going to take the Patient
Defense. Yeah, that works. I'm going to take the
Patient Defense.
MATT: Okay. Bonus action to Patient Defense.
MARISHA: Action, yep.
MATT: Okay. That finishes Beau's turn. Caduceus
and Jester, you guys can decide which of you goes first.
TALIESIN: I was just going to cast Bless. Entirely
up to you.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast Bless on myself--
MATT: Is Bless concentration?
TALIESIN: Bless is concentration. So, I'm casting
Bless on myself, on Caleb, and on Fjord.
MATT: All right, so you guys get to add a d4 to
your attack rolls and saving throws.
TRAVIS: Holy shit. Okay. (belch) Okay.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Spiritual Guardians. Oh,
sorry.
TALIESIN: Also, I'm going to back up into the wall
so I can keep an eye down that.
LAURA: Not too close to the wall because of the
seaweed.
TALIESIN: Well, no. See that little thing, that
little node behind me?
MATT: Right here?
TALIESIN: Yeah, so I can't be attacked from
behind, but also I can keep an eye on--
MATT: Okay, so you go against the wall?
TALIESIN: As long as there's no seaweed there.
MATT: There's seaweed there.
TALIESIN: Oh, then I'm not going against the wall.
I'm sorry.
MATT: All the walls are coated in this.
TALIESIN: Then I'm going to take a step or two
down to scatter us a little bit more.
MATT: Down this way?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I know, it's a little weird.
MATT: Okay, I'll put you there.
TALIESIN: Thank you. Yeah, anyway, I know.
MATT: Okay. That finishes your turn, Caduceus.
That finishes your turn, Jester. Okay, Jester,
you're casting Spiritual Guardians?
LAURA: Yes. I'm going to step a couple steps
toward Fjord.
MATT: There alongside him.
LAURA: Down to the-- yeah, okay. Then, yes, I'm
going to--
MATT: Well, where do you want to go? If you want
to move--
LAURA: Well, I wanted to not be quite in a line
with everybody else. I was going to be on the
steps, if that's possible.
MATT: Here? Yeah, we'll make it work. There,
sure.
LAURA: You'll know I'm there. Yeah, sure. I go
like this. They're the little spiritual unicorns,
but they're seahorses because we're underwater.
MARISHA: Cute!
MATT: Now all these little glowing pink seahorses
now surround you. 15-foot, right?
LAURA: Yeah, 15 feet around me.
MATT: Got it, okay. You have that up. You are also
now concentrating on Spiritual Guardians. That
finishes Jester's turn there.
MARISHA: It's so cute.
MATT: That brings us to-- what did you guys both
roll initiative on?
LAURA and TALIESIN: 20.
MATT: Okay, so concurrent with your turn, lair
action.
TALIESIN: Fuck.
SAM and MARISHA: Lair action!
MATT: At this point--
TRAVIS: Matt, this isn't a dragon. They don't get
lair actions.
MATT: You're in the lair of Dashilla. For this
lair action, it's going to use Lament of the Dead.
As you all stand here, rising out of the ground,
dozens of spirits begin to drift up, of various
drowned sailors and scavengers, out of the ground
and up toward the ceiling. I need everybody inside
to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
TALIESIN: If you have the d4, you can use the d4.
TRAVIS: Oh, right, okay. Thank you.
SAM: Wait, did you give a d4 to everybody?
TALIESIN: No, just to Fjord. Wisdom saving throw.
Ha!
TRAVIS: Yasha rolled a five. Fjord rolled a 16.
LIAM: Son of a bitch.
MATT: Fjord, you're fine. Yasha is frightened of
Dashilla until the end of the round. Caleb?
LIAM: Frightened.
MARISHA: 13.
MATT: You succeed. You manage to resist the fear
effect.
SAM: Two.
MATT: Oh, Nott.
SAM: Nope, Nott's immune to fear.
MATT: That's right, because you're drunk!
(yelling)
MATT: You're like, come at me, spirits!
LAURA: I never knew there was anything good about
the drunk!
MARISHA: It hasn't come into play!
MATT: Nott becomes Nott the Brave when she's
drunk.
TRAVIS: Amazing!
MATT: So unaffected. Spirits, whatever!
SAM: Fuck you!
MATT: You've been braving the ocean for half a
day.
LIAM: Fuck you! Come at me, you sea hag!
LAURA: 14.
MATT: You manage to resist it.
TALIESIN: 28. The fuck is this shit? Who the fuck
are you people?
MATT: As the spirits rise, this haunting, wailing
sound reverberates in the chamber. Both Caleb and
Yasha, their eyes go wide, and their breathing
begins to increase. You guys are frightened of
Dashilla to the end of the turn. Now it comes to
Dashilla's turn.
TRAVIS: I can take care of that.
MATT: Suddenly, tearing through the seaweed on the
upper wall, you see this figure emerge now. This
pale, aqua-green skin that's bulbous and strangely
proportioned. These long, clawed hands. As the
hair pulls back, you can see, where would be a
humanoid face instead are these protracted, almost
anglerfish-type teeth that come out of the front,
with no nose, and the yellow eyes gleaming from
underneath. She's going to look straight down at
you, Caleb.
LAURA: No!
MATT: I need you to make a wisdom saving throw for
me, please.
LIAM: Another one? Oh, good.
MARISHA: My bodyguarding doesn't do shit. Stop
looking at him!
MATT: Natural one? As she looks, she's still up in
the air, swimming, looking at you. Mouth opens,
and you feel the deepest, most horrifying fear
well up inside you. Your heart stops, and you drop
to zero hit points.
TRAVIS: Oh my fucking god!
MATT: You guys watch Caleb go (creaking) and start
drifting there, unconscious.
SAM: Oh, fuck.
MATT: Dashilla, now hovering in the space, is
going to move over. She moves over to the side of
the wall here, still visible, now jumping and
using and holding onto the seaweed like it's a
tether. All right.
LIAM: Really could have used that periapt right
about now.
TRAVIS: The what?
MATT: The periapt. That ends her turn. Fjord,
you're up.
TRAVIS: Is she visible?
MATT: She's visible. She's up on the wall on this
side.
TALIESIN: I got this. I've got him.
MATT: Remember, you guys are still underwater.
Aside from Fjord, you're all half speed.
TRAVIS: Yeah, okay.
LIAM: Oh, the lights are out.
TALIESIN: I still have my light.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: And his sword? Is his sword out?
MATT: The sword does give a faint bit of light.
LAURA: And my axe!
TRAVIS: I'll use my speed to close to the
pedestal, between the pedestal and Dashilla.
MATT: Right there?
TRAVIS: Yeah, but I'll stop short of her. I will
use a bonus action to cast Hex on her.
MATT: She is hexed. You have already used your--
TRAVIS: Hexblade's Curse, yeah.
MATT: As she's holding up there, looking down at
you, the murkiness of the nearby waters in the
movement begins to form around her and almost try
and claw at her throat, like the shadows
themselves are trying to pull at her clavicle.
TRAVIS: I will gather two Eldritch Blasts in my
hands and fire them both at her.
MATT: Roll two attacks.
TALIESIN: With extra d4s on both.
TRAVIS: Yes, thank you. One is a natural 20.
MATT: Yeah, it is!
TRAVIS: The other is a 17 plus four for a 21.
MATT: Both hit. You don't even need the d4s on
that. Roll damage on the critical first.
TRAVIS: I roll an extra d6 for the Hex, okay. So
the critical first. 1d10 plus four. That's a one.
MATT: So two, but roll the d6, which is also
doubled.
TRAVIS: That's a six.
MATT: So 12, so that's 14 plus your--
TRAVIS: Plus four.
MATT: That's 18 points of damage on that one. And
damage for the second one?
TRAVIS: Is a nine plus four, 13. Five, 18 points
of damage.
MATT: Well, look at that. 36 points of damage on a
cantrip and a Hex. That's how warlocks are done.
So as she's up there, as the Hex constrains around
her, both Eldritch Blasts hit. From both blasts,
there's these dark scar marks on the upper torso
and one off the shoulder where they impact. The
head curls up and (creaking) back in your
direction. The eyes seem to bulge angrily toward you.
TRAVIS: Uh-huh.
MATT: Does that end your turn?
TRAVIS: Yes, it does.
MATT: Okay. At the end of your turn, she's going
to use one of her legendary actions to use Forced
Vision. At some point during this adventure, as
she was trailing you throughout the cavern and
watching from a distance, she ensorceled a number
of your members of the party, you being one of them.
MARISHA: She what?
LAURA: That was the cold thingies.
TRAVIS: Was she invisible?
MATT: She was hiding through all the seaweed, and
no one was rolling high enough perception to see
her. You saw her move once because she didn't roll
high enough stealth on that one.
MARISHA: What the fuck is about to happen?
TRAVIS: And this is Forced Vision?
MATT: Correct. You are not immediately in melee
with anybody, but she's going to force you to
move. You glance. All of a sudden you see her out
of the corner of your eye. She's not there
anymore. She's off there. You rush in her
direction after her, compelled to move over this
side right up against the wall, between the wall
and Beau. You get there, and she's gone. You look
back, and she never left. You shake your head for
a second. That's one legendary action done. Next
turn is Nott.
SAM: I will move to the left, my left, near that
pillar thing, yeah, and bonus action hide behind it.
MATT: Okay. You move over there. So bonus action,
hide.
SAM: Shit, not great. 16.
MATT: 16 hits.
SAM: No, 16, that's the hide.
MATT: Sorry, that's right. Yeah.
SAM: I don't know if that hides me enough. Is
that--?
MATT: You don't know. You'll find out.
SAM: Okay. And I will attack.
MATT: All right. So you dart from behind and
fire.
SAM: I shoot at a 25 or something like that.
MATT: That indeed hits. And she didn't roll very
well for perception, so you do get sneak attack on this.
SAM: All right! Yeah. Okay.
LAURA: Yeah, that's good.
SAM: 21 plus five is--
LAURA: (singing) 26
SAM: Plus Fury of the Small is another seven,
right? Is that that works now?
MATT: 33
SAM: Yeah, 33.
MATT: So darting from the side and letting the
bubbles go by. She is within 30 feet of you, so
you do not have the disadvantage. It catches her
in the chest, and her hands go forward and she
leans out of the seaweed for a second to pull it
out and let it fall as it slowly begins to drift
down, sinking into the chamber before reaching
back up into the seaweed and holding on to it.
SAM: That is not sanitary.
TRAVIS: Does she take poison damage?
MATT: No. She is immune to the effect of the
seaweed.
SAM: That makes a little sense.
TRAVIS: Unfortunate. Unfortunate.
MATT: So, is that your turn?
SAM: That's my turn. I've done everything.
MATT: All righty. Finishing Nott's go, Yasha's up.
Yasha is frightened.
TRAVIS: She will rage with her bonus action and no
longer be frightened or charmed.
MATT: She can do that?
TRAVIS: Doesn't rage break--
MATT: Nah. I think that's a thing that berserkers
got.
TARVIS: Oh, really?
MATT: I'll double check.
TRAVIS: It might have been. Might have been some
old shit.
MATT: Yeah that's mindless rage. It's sixth level
path of the berserker. It's a little Grog bleeding
in there.
TRAVIS: Sorry. Old shit.
MATT: All good.
TRAVIS: She will definitely not move any closer to
Dashilla. Where is Yasha-- she's right there.
Where's Caleb?
MATT: Caleb is over there.
TRAVIS: Can she...?
LAURA: If she stays within 15 feet of me then
she's-- anyone within 15 feet of me is protected
by my unicorn dragons.
TRAVIS: From what? From Scary Face?
TALIESIN: From being attacked physically.
LAURA: From being attacked. They get attacked if
they get near you.
TRAVIS: Where is Jester standing?
MATT: Jester's right here. She's technically up on
the stair right there.
TRAVIS: Okay I got you. Can Yasha use her 20 feet
to move to Caleb?
MATT: I'll say, for the purposes of ease there,
Jester is up on that stair there.
TRAVIS: 20 feet to move to Caleb, which shouldn't
be any closer to Dashilla.
MATT: Nope. Up on top of this platform or off to
the side?
MARISHA: There's a platform?
MATT: There's a little raised section in the
center there.
TRAVIS: Sure. Platform sounds good. And she will
use her handy heal thing to pump seven points of
healing into Caleb.
TALIESIN: Did she get tapped in the head by the
way? Since we are running her?
TRAVIS: Yasha didn't. Not that I remember.
MATT: No.
LAURA: I did, Fjord did, and--
MATT: Caleb did.
LAURA AND TRAVIS: Caleb did.
TALIESIN: Fuck.
TRAVIS: So Caleb gets six hit points as an action,
healing hands.
LIAM: On top of seven, or six total?
TRAVIS: Seven total.
LIAM: Seven total. So I got that.
TRAVIS: Does that bring him back to
consciousness?
MATT: Yes it does.
TRAVIS: Okay. Just making sure.
MATT: So you're back to consciousness. You're at
seven hit points.
LIAM: But Expeditious Retreat is gone.
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: Is Mage Armor gone?
MATT: No, Mage Armor is not concentration.
MATT: Correct. You're still frightened until the
end of the turn.
TRAVIS: Can she use a bonus action to rage, even
though she's frightened?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I know it might fall if she doesn't attack
anything or isn't attacked.
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: Okay let's do it anyway.
MATT: Okay, so she goes into a rage?
TRAVIS: And that's her turn.
MATT: All right that ends Yasha's go. At the end
of Yasha's turn it's going to use another
legendary action to use Forced Vision on you,
Fjord. I need you to go ahead and make a melee
attack against Beau, as you glance around and
suddenly she's right there in front of you. And
you take your falchion, swing out to try and take
her out.
MARISHA: Has disadvantage, because I have Patient
Defense.
MATT: Yep. So you have disadvantage on the
strike.
TRAVIS: Okay, that's good.
MATT: But you do have plus d4s to each of the hits
because of Bless.
TRAVIS: Oh shitballs. That's at two plus eight is
ten.
MATT: Plus a d4.
TRAVIS: Plus a d4 is--
MARISHA: He misses.
TRAVIS: --is 14.
MATT: Yeah.
MATT: (sword whoosh) You duck out of the way.
"What the hell?"
MARISHA: Dick!
TRAVIS: I'm like, I don't know.
MARISHA: (confused noises)
MATT: All right. That ends Yasha's turn. Caleb.
You are conscious, prone, floating, sinking
towards the ground as you come to consciousness as
Yasha grabs and jolts you awake.
LIAM: If I crouch behind the table from where
Dashilla is, will I get half cover or something?
MATT: Yeah, you'd get half cover. Yeah.
LIAM: Okay. So I am going to do that and then I am
going to--
MATT: Getting up from prone?
LIAM: I would like to stay semi-crouched to try
and get some cover from that thing.
MATT: Yeah, you can get cover.
LIAM: Thank you. And I pull a twisted blackened
twig out and point it at her and cast Witch Bolt
at fourth level.
MARIASHA: That's cool.
MATT and LAURA: At fourth level!
TRAVIS: That's a fuck ton of d10s?
MATT: That's 4d12.
LIAM: That's a ranged spell attack, correct?
MATT: Correct. So you have to roll a d20, add your
spell attack modifier.
LIAM: Plus the Bless?
TRAVIS AND LAURA: Yes.
MATT: Yes, technically, because he was
concentrating.
LIAM: Spell attack is 13, plus the Bless is a d4?
TALIESIN: Yep.
TRAVIS: It's just four, right?
TALIESIN: No, it's a d4.
LIAM: It's a d4. So, 14.
MATT: Her armor class is 15. I'm so sorry.
LIAM: Blast it. Gone.
MATT: You release the Witch Bolt and as it fires
out and arcs, in a split-second moment the eyes go
wide and she darts out of the way and it impacts
the side of the stone wall. You watch as the
seaweed she was clutching is burned and falls away
for a second, and behind it, you see another one
of those runes. Just sitting there in the
chamber.
LIAM: Them's the breaks. Them's the breaks.
MATT: That's your turn. All right, back at the
top. Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Spellcasters suck!
MATT: Actually, at the end of Caleb's turn...
TRAVIS: How many legendary actions does she have?
MATT: She has three. She's going to use her last
one. She's going to go ahead and use Shifting
Speed. So she's going to move her speed without
triggering opportunity attacks.
(background music)
SAM: Oh, a fast swimmer! A regular Michael
Phelps!
MATT: Actually she can move ten more feet, so
right there.
SAM: Oh my God!
TRAVIS: A 50-foot swim.
MATT: Yep. As you watch, she skitters across the
wall, grabbing the seaweed and using it, almost
Tarzan-like, to thrust herself forward, grabbing
onto this bit, rolling, and then swimming around
and is now floating in the air, or floating in the
water, right next to where Caduceus is standing.
Beau, what are you doing?
MARISHA: How many feet is she?
MATT: From you right now?
MARISHA: Yeah. (counting)
MATT: 30 feet from you.
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay. I'm going to dart, I'm
going to do, um...
LAURA: Step of the Wind?
MARISHA: Thank you. Thank you for knowing my
abilities.
MATT: So you jump off the ground and swim forward,
cruising through the room, Step of the Wind you
get one extra push and you land right next to
where she is.
MARISHA: (strained voice) I'm going to punch her
with my fists!
(laughter)
MATT: Go for it!
MARISHA: Just going to try and Keanu Reeves
ghost-punch her. I don't know. Punching ghosts.
TRAVIS: Was that a Matrix reference?
MARISHA: Well, uh, you know like the--
LAURA: Go!
MARISHA: Is this at disadvantage?
MATT: Yes, because you are underwater still.
MARISHA: That's four. Yeah, probably not. 11.
MATT: The first strike, as you come forward, this
is the first time you get a really good look at
the face of this terrible creature, and as soon as
you come towards, the mouth opens up and you
barely hold back from the punch and that just
gives it enough time to shift out of the way and
it just hits water.
MARISHA: One more. Okay! 22!
MATT: That hits. You know now that 15 is the armor
class.
TRAVIS: Can I say, for the Hex, wisdom ability
checks-- disadvantage.
MATT: Wisdom ability checks, got it.
MARISHA: Nine.
MATT: Nine? Nine points of damage. As the first
one misses and pulls away, you're like, "Nope!"
Whack! And then right across the jaw, (cracking
sound). Cold and hard. There's a toughness to her.
MARISHA: Boney.
MATT: All right. Does that finish your turn,
Beau?
MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: All right. Caduceus and Jester, you're up.
TALIESIN: You want to go?
LAURA: Sure!
MATT: She did technically move around and would've
passed through your 15-foot radius, by the way.
LAURA: Oh!
MATT: So she does have to make a wisdom saving
throw. A five plus one. Six. So that's a failure.
Go ahead and roll damage for your--
LAURA: Spirit Guardians?
MATT: Spirit Guardians, yes.
LAURA: Yay!
TRAVIS: Seahorses!
LAURA: Seahorse unicorns! Hold on, where's my
other-- where the fuck are my d8s?
SAM: You can use mine.
LAURA: (high pitched) Where'd all my d8s go!?
SAM: Here's one.
LAURA: There's another one. 10, 13. Radiant
damage!
SAM: (sing-song) Mine rolled the best of the three
dice!
MATT: Caleb and Yasha are no longer frightened of
Dashilla. Okay, 13. So you watch as she darts
across the room as her legendary action. All the
floating seahorses suddenly dart up and slam into
her side, but she still manages to skitter past.
All right, so now it's Jester and Caduceus' turn.
Because you guys are players, I'm giving you the
initiative just before the lair action hits,
because you're all on 20. Go for it.
LAURA: I'm going to step forward so I'm within 15
feet of her so they can try to attack her again.
MATT: On her turn? All right.
SAM: Bloop.
LAURA: An affected creature-- When you cast the
spell-- What?
MATT: Technically the creature's movement is
halved when it moves through.
LAURA: An affected creature's is halved in the
area, yes.
MATT: It only barely skimmed the side, so it would
have lost five foot of movement, so we'll say that
Dashilla is there.
LAURA: Okay. And when the creature enters the area
for the first time on a turn or starts its turn
there. So if I move towards it wouldn't it enter
the area?
MATT: No, you're entering hers. She has to enter
your area. However, at the start of her turn, it triggers.
LAURA: Okay. Then I'm going to move within 15 feet
of her and then as a bonus action I'm going to
cast Spiritual Weapon at 4th-level.
MATT: Ooh boy!
TRAVIS: Is that the first time?
LAURA: Mmhmm. So that's a little spiritual
lollipop with giant serrated blades coming out of it.
MATT: So where are you putting it?
LAURA: Right in front of her face.
MATT: Like right here? Let her do it.
LAURA: Is it okay?
TALIESIN: No, yeah, no, my opinions are weird.
LAURA: And it's going to attack her.
MATT: Go ahead and roll an attack.
LAURA: Whoa! That's a natural 19 so I think that
hits.
MATT: Yes it does, go ahead and roll damage on
that.
LAURA: Whoa! Double eights!
MATT: Well you cast it at 4th-level you said,
right? That's 3d8.
LAURA: Really?
MATT: Because it's 2nd-level normally, each level
you put on top of that--
MARISHA: You get an additional die.
LAURA: Really!?
MATT: Yeah, for every spell level ahead of two you
get another. So 16 plus one more d8.
LAURA: Seven!
MATT: All right. So that's 23.
TRAVIS: 24.
MATT: No, 23. Double eights is 16, plus seven is
23.
LAURA: 23 plus four!
MATT: Yeah, because of your wisdom. So 27 points
of damage. Whack! The serrated edge of the
lollipop grinds into her! As it does, black blood
spills out from the wound of the chest, the shreds
of seaweed and cloth pulling off from the front,
exposing the sunken rib cage where the flesh is
pulled taut against, and now the wound itself is
open and spilling this trail of cloudy black blood
in the water.
LAURA: For my action, I'm going to cast Sacred
Flame.
SAM: That was your bonus action?
MATT: Yep. Sacred Flame is a cantrip, so go for
it. That's wisdom, or dexterity?
LAURA: Dexterity save.
MATT: Dexterity save. That is going to be an 18.
LAURA: Damn it. Okay.
MATT: But that was a nice round.
TRAVIS: Dude, get the fuck out!
MATT: All right, finishing up Jester's turn.
Caduceus?
TALIESIN: Motherfucking dexterity save. That's
some bullshit.
MATT: You just watched her dart over you,
essentially, Ten feet up above, scoot past, land,
and then both Jester and Beau converge and start
pummelling her in the hallway.
MARISHA: I'm just punching the shit out of her
while surrounded by rainbow sea horses and a
bladed lollipop. This is awesome.
MATT: Welcome to Dungeons & Dragons.
TALIESIN: I'm going to also do this. I'm going to
do a Sacred Flame.
MATT: Okay. Dexterity save. That is going to be a
14. I don't believe that--
TALIESIN: That does not, because it's a 16.
MATT: Yep, so go ahead and roll damage on that.
TALIESIN: And that's nine points of radiant
damage.
MATT: Nine points of radiant damage, nice. (spell
impact, angry snarl)
TALIESIN: I don't like the look of this thing. I'm
going to turn invisible and I'm going to back up a
little into the...
MATT: So you turn invisible and you're going to
back up into here, into this little corner?
TALIESIN: I mean down the steps a bit.
MATT: Oh, there?
TALIESIN: Towards me. Oh, I got a thing still.
MATT: Over here?
TALIESIN: Yeah, so I'm far enough away from
anything that I might need to fuck with.
MATT: Got it. And you are invisible there. Good to
know. All right, at the end of your turn, the lair
action kicks in. Clouded Waters. Now you watch as
the silt, the muck, and the bones all of a sudden
begin to swirl up into the waters around you and
obscure the area. The entire lair is now
considered heavily obscured. You cannot see more
than five feet in front of you.
SAM: Whoa.
MATT: It's now Dashilla's turn. She gets her
legendary actions back.
SAM: Hey, she can't see us!
(background music)
MATT: Oh, she's not affected by the obscurity.
This is her lair.
TALIESIN: She starts 15 feet within--
MATT: She does, so immediately she has to take the
Spirit Guardians.
LAURA: And she's hexed on wisdom.
MATT: Wisdom ability checks, not saving throws.
Otherwise hex would be super powerful. But she
still rolls a 4.
LAURA: Yay!
MATT: So do full damage.
LAURA: That doesn't count because it slipped out.
SAM: It was not intentional.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I rolled lower anyway; I wanted to be fair.
13.
MATT: 13 points of radiant damage, blasted again
as this cluster of vibrant glowing, almost pink
pulsing sea horses swirl around and pierce through
her chest.
LAURA: Sea horses with unicorn horns.
MATT: Unicorn horns, of course. I assumed!
TRAVIS: Do they have pissed off expressions or are
they happy?
LAURA: They're happy.
TRAVIS: Oh good!
MATT: They're just like "wee!"
TALIESIN: Be happy in your work.
MATT: It's very like that Perry Bible Fellowship
comic.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, oh god!
MATT: The kid gets impaled by the unicorns; I love
it so much. All right, so that happens. The top of
her turn. Yeah, nobody's currently feared by her.
TRAVIS: Yasha is still.
TALIESIN: Nope.
MATT: No, it lasts until the beginning of the next
combat round. Okay, she's going to go ahead and do
a multi-attack with her claws against Beauregard
because she's in melee.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: That's two strikes against you, these giant
bladed, fingered claws. First one is-- that's a
natural 14 plus seven. That's 21 to hit.
MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: The second one is a natural 16.
MATT: All right, so you get hit from each. You
take, from the first strike, 12 points of slashing
damage. The second one, 14 points of slashing
damage. In what already was clouded silt is now
clouded further by your own blood from the slash
marks across the front and the side of your neck
and jaw, and the pain sears through. In an
instant, all you see is the claws streaking
through and the glowing yellow eyes before they
rescind back into the cloud.
TALIESIN: No attack of opportunity?
MATT: Well no, she's going to attempt to move
back. Make an attack of opportunity with disadvantage.
MARISHA: Yeah. Nope.
TRAVIS: Fucking Gil.
MATT: With that she vanishes into--
LIAM: The murk. It's just physical crap filling
the water?
MATT: Yeah, just all over. That's going to go
ahead and end Dashilla's turn. Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: Am I coherent? Am I awake and alive?
MATT: Yes.
TRAVIS: That's cool, good!
MATT: You're a bit shaken by all these visions
that keep creeping into your head.
TRAVIS: Wow. I only remember where I kind of last
saw her?
MATT: Yes. I mean you saw her still dart and run
this way, and then everything just went dark
around you and you can't see more than five feet
ahead of you.
TRAVIS: Fuck me. I don't even know where to send
anything.
MATT: It's heavily obscured which means you can
still attack that direction, but it's at disadvantage.
TRAVIS: I'm going to move over to the throne.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
SAM: And claim it as my own!
TRAVIS: And send two Eldritch Blasts towards the
area that she's at, at disadvantage.
MATT: Okay, wow, that was--
TALIESIN: I feel you.
LIAM: Desperation.
MATT: All right. Two strikes at disadvantage, go
for it.
TRAVIS: Plus the d4, that's 14. Plus three is 17.
MATT: That still hits with disadvantage.
TRAVIS: And a 12-- 19, 20?
MATT: You watch as soon as everything clouds in
and you see her vanishing in that distant area.
You throw them back out there, and through sheer
luck and remembering where she was heading, both
blasts-- you don't even see the impact but you
hear the (gasp). Roll damage on each of those.
LIAM: He just threw the basketball over his
shoulder from half court.
TRAVIS: That's ten on the first one, and the
second one is nine plus four is 13.
LAURA: He Sigourney Weavered it.
TRAVIS: 16 points on the second one, so 26 total.
MATT: Nice!
TALIESIN: Fuck, motherfucker!
MATT: Oof, there were some good rounds in that.
All right, that's your action?
TRAVIS: That's Hex baby. That is my action.
MATT: Okay, you're going to stay there by the
throne?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: That finishes your go, Fjord. Next up, it is
Nott.
SAM: I will follow suit-- oh wait, she's more than
30 feet away from me, isn't she?
MATT: You have no idea where she is. You know that
she's somewhere in this tunnel.
SAM: Okay, great.
MATT: Or in that direction.
SAM: Well then I won't do that. I will-- there's
nothing for me to do. There's no do to do.
LAURA: You can fire at where she was.
TALIESIN: Or hold action.
LAURA: Or hold action until she appears, that's
smart.
SAM: Yeah, I'll just find a little hiding spot
somewhere, like around--
MATT: You're heavily obscured so you can literally
hide anywhere right now.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: You're in a cloud of murk and gathered
sediment.
TALIESIN: Yeah!
SAM: Yeah! I'll just crouch down then and hold my
action until I see her.
MATT: Are you hiding then as a bonus?
SAM: Yes.
MATT: Roll stealth.
SAM: 18.
MATT: Okay, and then you are holding--
SAM: Holding a crossbow bolt until I see her or an
enemy.
MATT: Okay, you got it. All right, that finishes
your go. Yasha's turn.
TRAVIS: Yeah. She doesn't know where she is right?
It's clouded as fuck?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: She's all melee as shit.
SAM: Can she dispel the magical effect on the
room? I don't know.
TRAVIS: Yes.
LIAM: It's not necessarily a magical effect.
MARISHA: Oh, her sword!
TRAVIS: Actually, she has Dispel Magic on her
sword.
LIAM: If it's magic.
TRAVIS: The Magician's Judge. You can choose to
cast Dispel Magic against the target as part of
the attack.
MARISHA: It's a lair action.
TRAVIS: Can I attack the water?
MATT: It's less--
LIAM: That's why I asked if it was shit in the
water.
MATT: Yeah, not that Yasha would understand with
her comparatively limited experience of arcane
stuff, but it's not so much magical darkness than
it is as much of sediment and silt up in the air
by some sort of-- it's up to her, she can give it
a shot.
TRAVIS: Nope.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: No. She will put her back against Caleb,
back to back.
MATT: While staying there?
TRAVIS: Yeah. Get down off the pedestal, I guess.
Literally back to back with him, shoulder blades
against shoulder blades, and hold her attack in
case she-bitch shows up.
SAM: Just two bad-asses, back to back, ready to
go.
MATT: You got it.
LIAM: Where are they?
TRAVIS: Her rage will fall.
MATT: Yes it does. Okay, that ends Yasha's go.
Caleb.
LIAM: I'm going to cast Detect Magic because I
have a suspicion that she has something on her, or
perhaps the orb in her head. Then I will down the
potion that's in my pocket as a bonus action.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: You cast Detect Magic in a 30 foot radius
around you. You sense a powerful magical essence
from the throne next to Fjord.
LIAM: Ah!
SAM: Kill Fjord.
LIAM: Okay, so I get six points back from that. I
am going to move towards Fjord and crouch behind
the table.
MATT: Right there?
LIAM: A little closer this way, so I'd be between
Fjord and the table. Ja, gut.
MATT: Okay, that ends your turn.
LIAM: Yes. Trying to get cover again.
MATT: All right, at the end of your turn,
Dashilla's going to use a legendary action to use
Forced Vision on you Fjord. As you're there by the
side, you look over by the corner and you see--
you don't see Caleb. You see a spirit rushing up
towards you with an open maw. Go ahead and make an attack.
TRAVIS: Disadvantage?
MATT: No.
TRAVIS: Why was it at disadvantage before?
MATT: Because she had Patient Defense on.
TRAVIS: That's right.
LAURA: But it's a melee attack.
MARISHA: Against him?
MATT: He's not affected by it because of his
armor. He's got Mariner's Armor.
LIAM: So it doesn't affect just movement. It's
everything?
TRAVIS: That's a natural one. Plus two! For three.
A total of ten.
MATT: Yeah, no. As you swing, that little bit in
the back of your brain resists, and you can see
for a moment through the illusion--
TRAVIS: Sorry, 11. It's 11.
MATT: With your mage armor I think you're okay,
right?
LIAM: Oh yeah. 14.
MATT: Yeah you manage to just pull back enough to
pull the blade back and Caleb you watch as it
spins past, missing you by inches.
LIAM: Ah! You were Fjord in that moment.
(laughter)
MATT: All right.
SAM: Any excuse to hit Marisha.
MARISHA: The fuck?
MATT: Top of the round. It's Beau's go.
MARISHA: I'm in shock still; I'm sorry. Bring back
cookies if you're going.
LIAM: I'll bring back cookies.
MARISHA: Bring back fucking cookies!
LIAM: Sorry!
SAM: Fucking cookies!
MARISHA: You fucking dick!
MATT: It's made of fucking cookies!
MARISHA: Where is she?
MATT: You don't know.
MARISHA: I don't know? I don't see her?
MATT: She disappeared. You're surrounded by cloud;
you can barely see Jester at the peripheral and
the floating Spiritual Weapon, and you watch her
vanish into this swirling bit of murk.
TALIESIN: Going to have to wait until it passes.
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm going to hold. I'm going to
move down past on the other side of Jester a
little bit.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Right behind her and hold my action until
I see her, if she's in range to attack.
MATT: You got it. All right, so you're holding
your attack action. That ends your turn. Caduceus
and Jester.
MARISHA: I have to spend bonus actions on my turn,
correct?
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: I will go ahead and spend Patient
Defense.
MATT: You got it.
TRAVIS: PD!
LAURA: (low-pitched siren-like sound, then
high-pitched siren-like sound) You go first.
TALIESIN: I'm not particularly interesting. I'm
just going to--
MATT: You reappear.
TALIESIN: I reappear. I'm going to move a little
further into the center of the room, and I'm going
to--
MATT: There?
TALIESIN: No, a little-- I've got a pen for this.
Oh my god, it's dead now. To be fair, we've been
using it for years. Just at the foot of the
stairs.
MATT: Oh, like here?
TALIESIN: Yeah, like there. We'll make a nice long
line so it'll be a little touchy-feely thing to
get from one side to the other. I'm going to hold
my attack until I see her, which is going to be a
Sacred Flame.
MATT: Okay, so you're holding Sacred Flame.
TALIESIN: As a bonus, I'm going to do Healing Word
on-- you are probably pretty down, so I will throw
you a tiny bit-- it's not a lot, but it's nine
points.
LAURA: Ooh, that's pretty good.
MARISHA: Ooh, that is good.
SAM: Ooh!
MATT: Okay. All right, so you're holding Sacred
Flame, you said, right?
LAURA: No, that's--
TALIESIN: That was me.
MATT: What are you doing, Jester?
LAURA: I guess I'll just for my bonus action-- can
I swing my lollipop at where I thought she was?
MATT: Sure, go ahead and roll attack with
disadvantage.
LAURA: Natural 20 and a 16.
MATT: It hits the fuck out of nothing; she's not
there, unfortunately.
LAURA: Damn it. Okay, then I guess I will hold my
spell Guiding Bolt until I see her.
MATT: Okay. At the end of the turn, the sediment
drops. The moment it drops, she appears.
SAM: Hey!
MARISHA: Be at range, bitch!
MATT: She is over here.
MARISHA: She's on fucking range!
MATT: Nope, but both of you get to fire at her.
You unfortunately do not see her; she's around the
corner from you.
SAM: That's fine. I see them firing and so I just
shoot at them.
MATT: So excited in the moment!
SAM: Ahh!
TRAVIS: Light it up!
LAURA: Natural 20!
MATT: That's amazing! All right, so roll your
damage.
LAURA: 4d6 times two?
MATT: Yep.
TALIESIN: And save against dex 16.
MATT: Natural 19.
TALIESIN: Motherfucker.
SAM: Ooh, nice!
TALIESIN: Yeah, all I need.
LAURA: 32 points of radiant damage and next is
advantage.
MATT: Next attack has advantage on her, yeah.
She's starting to look pretty hurt. As it blasts
into her and lights up the vicinity, between the
gash and the various impacts from the Eldritch
Blasts and the punches from Beau, and now where
that impacted, there's now a darkened, burned
crater in the center of the chest that's beginning
to ooze out blood. She's like (heavy breathing).
All right. Reappears, at which point, the next
lair action is going to be Tethering Walls. Any
creature within ten feet of a wall must make a
dexterity saving throw. That's going to be Jester,
Beau's just out of range, Caduceus. Everybody but
Jester, ten feet from a wall.
LAURA: Everybody but me?
MATT: Yeah. No, sorry, everybody but Beau. Beau's
the one who's central to this chamber.
TRAVIS: Yasha has advantage on those.
MATT: She does. What's up?
TALIESIN: You've got a d4 on saves also. Dex
save?
MATT: Dex save, yes.
LAURA: 22.
MATT: Success.
TRAVIS: Natural 20 for Fjord and a 19 for Yasha.
MATT: Great, success.
MARISHA: Didn't have to roll.
MATT: I'm sorry, not you.
LIAM: 14.
MATT: Success.
SAM: 21.
TALIESIN: Six.
MATT: Caduceus, as the seaweed extends outward,
most of you manage to duck out of the way.
However, it wraps around and pulls Caduceus to the
wall. You are grappled and you take 11 points of
poison damage.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: That ends that. It is now Dashilla's turn.
Dashilla is going to go ahead and move ten feet up
to Jester.
LAURA: She has to make a saving throw.
SAM: I shoot her.
MATT: Well, she actually started within the range,
so she makes it. You do.
LAURA: She started within 15 feet?
MATT: You do. Go ahead and make your attack.
SAM: It's a 16.
MATT: 16 hits.
SAM: I am hidden from her.
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: Sneak attack?
SAM: Uh-huh. 20.
MATT: 20 points of damage, oof. Nice. Then the
save against yours, a natural 19. So she takes
half damage. Still roll.
LAURA: Okay, so I still roll. Oh, that's a seven.
No, that's a one. Okay. Oh, that's shit. Five. It
looks like a seven.
SAM: It does. It's not a good dice. You should
throw that one away.
MATT: Five points of damage, reduced to two. She's
going to rush toward you and take two claw strikes
at you. Natural 19! Wow, fucking 19s this past
round. Yeah, that's a 26 to hit you.
LAURA: It hits.
MATT: On the second strike, a natural 17.
LAURA: That also hits.
MATT: Yep, they both hit you. You take, ooh, 19
points of slashing damage from the first hit and
17 points of slashing damage from the second.
LAURA and TALIESIN: Damn.
MATT: That's ten feet of movement, and she's going
to--
LAURA: Oh, I use Hellish Rebuke!
MATT: Go for it.
TRAVIS: You could hear the thought burst forth:
Don't forget about it!
LAURA: 15 points.
MATT: Nice! Dashilla's looking really bad.
LAURA: As she hits me, my eyes flare white, and I
go: Aah! Like that.
MATT: As it happens, these ice crystals formulate
out of the seawater and all cross-jettison into
her body. Now they're embedded in her chest and
torso, these large crystals of shards of jagged
ice. (snarling) Eyes going wide, looks around.
She's going to use the rest of her movement--
TALIESIN: Speed is halved.
MATT: Speed is halved on the movement, so that's
(counting) 60.
LAURA: Oh, shit balls.
MATT: Well, not 50, technically, because 50 is her
swimming speed. So right there.
SAM and LAURA: She's fleeing.
MATT: That's the end of Dashilla's turn. Fjord,
you're up first.
SAM: Teleport! I don't know, can't you teleport or
something?
MARISHA: Is she trying to run?
TALIESIN: Technically, I think you have line of
sight, from what I'm looking at right now.
LAURA: If you jump up, you do.
MATT: Yeah. It is water. There is a vertical
aspect you guys can use if you want to.
TRAVIS: Why not. I'll go, (impacts).
MATT: Okay. There's this cloud of sand and dust
and bones that get scattered up from your leap.
You're up in the air and then throw both forward.
Roll attacks.
MARISHA: Kill her. Come on. That's good!
TRAVIS: That's a 26 and a 23.
MATT: Both hit. Roll damage.
TRAVIS: Okay, so 12, 15 points on the first one.
LAURA: Did you add your--? Okay.
TRAVIS: Nine points on the second one, so 19
points of damage.
MATT: 19 points on the second one?
TRAVIS: No, 19 points total between the two.
MATT: Okay. Fuck, man, she's right on the cusp!
All right. That finishes your turn?
TRAVIS: It does.
MATT: Legendary action, she's going to Shifting
Speed--
TALIESIN: Damn it!
LAURA and TALIESIN: No!
MATT: 20, and is out of sight.
MARISHA: No!
TALIESIN: You still know where she is because of
Hex, though, right?
MATT: Hex doesn't work that way. That's Hunter's
Mark. All right, that finishes Fjord's turn. Nott?
MARISHA: Go fight her!
SAM: I'll run after her, but it's half speed, so
I'll get 45 feet.
MATT: (mini clicking on map)
You still don't see her.
SAM: I don't see her! That's it.
MATT: All right, that ends your turn. Yasha?
LAURA: Can you hold until you--?
MATT: He used action, movement, and bonus.
TALIESIN: Who's up?
MATT: It is now Yasha.
TRAVIS: Oh, right, that's me. Fuck.
LAURA: Cad's still grappled.
TALIESIN: Help.
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. She'll go through and take some
swipes at the kelp, trying to loosen Caduceus. Or
would it be better to grab you and fucking pull?
MATT: If she rages in advance, she can use
advantage on the athletics check. Up to you.
TRAVIS: (German accent) Ja, let's do the raging.
SAM: Ashley?
TRAVIS: Okay. So two athletics, you said?
MATT: Yes. Athletics with advantage.
TRAVIS: Fucking what? 14.
MATT: 14's enough. The DC to break is 12.
TRAVIS: I don't know the scale, Matt.
MATT: It's seaweed. But yeah. She reaches forward
and grabs Caduceus and pulls him away from the
side so now you're no longer grappled. You can
move.
TALIESIN: Yay! Thank you.
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: That's her action and her bonus. That
finishes Yasha's go. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Yeah, this is a fucked situation. I am going
to hold Magic Missile at second level if she appears.
MATT: You got it.
LIAM: Just in case.
MATT: Okay. That finishes Caleb's go. Top of the
round, Beau.
MARISHA: I am burning a Step of the Wind and I am
hauling ass towards the direction that Nott ran. I
have 135 feet movement speed with that, so that,
halved.
MATT: Halved, yeah.
SAM: So 60?
LIAM: That's pitiful.
MATT: You can move four squares per go, so another
(counting) four. You get out the side and you can see--
LIAM: Oh, get her!
MATT: She hasn't had a chance to hide yet.
MARISHA: (excited yelling)
LIAM: Shuriken!
MARISHA: God, I wish I had something that would--
I just see her though.
MATT: You see her right there.
LAURA: You can't attack her? You can't--
LIAM: You're right there. She probably busted
everything to get there.
LAURA: Throw a shuriken.
MATT: That the end of your turn?
MARISHA: I don't think I have anything else.
MATT: End of your turn.
MARISHA: I just go: I see her!
MATT: Legendary action. She's going to go ahead
and Shift Speed again. Looks over the corner and
sees you (hissing) and goes ahead and darts out of
sight once more.
MARISHA: Fuck.
MATT: You know the direction where she curved
around though.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: That finishes your go. Caduceus and Jester.
LAURA: I-- oof.
TALIESIN: I'm just going to do the-- Fjord, you
should probably get what we're looking for and get
after her. I'm going to hightail it towards where
she was heading.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: But the throne!
MATT: That's as close as you can get right there,
I'll say.
TALIESIN: Including burning an action?
MATT: Oh, with burning an action you can get
there.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Still have a reaction.
MATT: There you go.
TALIESIN: I can take a little more damage before
I'm awful.
MATT: Okay. That finishes your go.
LAURA: I turn to Fjord; I go: The orb! Fjord, do
you see the orb? Do I see the orb?
MATT: You do not see the orb, no.
LAURA: I'm going to stay here. No, I'm going to go
after everybody else.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: But Oskar.
MATT: That a double move?
LAURA: No, I'm going to cast--
MATT: That's as far as you can get on your single
move there.
LAURA: Has anybody-- has Nott been hit at all?
TALIESIN: No.
SAM: Nott's never hit.
LAURA: Can I bonus action?
MATT: Rogues, man.
LAURA: Can I bonus action and still get the Dash
thing?
MATT: Yeah because it's your action to move.
LAURA: Okay, cool. Then for my bonus action I'm
going to-- oh right, the Spiritual Weapon. I was
going to cast Mass Healing Word, but that's a
third level.
TALIESIN: Yeah, you can't do that, no.
LAURA: Never mind. Yeah, I'll bring my Spiritual
Weapon with me and then I guess I'll keep going.
MATT: Right there, all right. You move (counting)
20; you get up to the edge there. Well,
technically 15; you only move 30. All right, that
finishes Jester's turn. All of the seaweed falls
back into a casual place. The next lair action is
going to be the Lament of the Dead.
MARISHA: What?
MATT: The dead spirits now begin to fall through
at different angles out of the sides of the walls
and drifting through. Everybody once more needs to
make a wisdom saving throw.
LAURA: Everybody?
MATT: Everybody.
TALIESIN: Oh, remember your extra d4. I forgot
them.
MATT: Through the halls, through everything.
MARISHA: 15.
MATT: Success.
LIAM: 14.
LIAM: Ooh.
LAURA: This is a wisdom?
MATT: Yes. DC is 12 on this.
TRAVIS: 16 and a 13 for Yasha.
MATT: Both successes.
TALIESIN: 19.
MATT: Success.
LAURA: 17.
SAM: 11, doesn't matter.
MATT: Huh?
SAM: 11.
LAURA: Oh, that's right, you're--
MATT: Yeah, wow. You guys all cleared that check.
Nice.
LIAM: Fuck you, ghost.
MATT: Lair action, no effect. All right.
SAM: Sorry, Matt.
MATT: No, don't apologize.
SAM: (whispering) He hates us.
MATT: Dashilla's turn. Dashilla's somewhere.
Fjord, what do you do?
TRAVIS: I'm going to turn with the falchion in my
hand and search the throne for--
MATT: Make a search action?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Make an investigation check for me. I'll say
with advantage because you have the falchion
drawn. You can sense the presence of something
important.
TRAVIS: Is it investigation?
MATT: Correct.
SAM: Come on.
TRAVIS: 13.
MATT: 13 will do it. Going to the throne and
sensing with the sword like a homing beacon, you
feel the strong source where the cushion in the
front of the throne is. It's partially rotted, and
you can see where once was red, nice velvet
materials has blackened over time and general
sediment in the area, and then minerals, begin to
gather at the corners. You reach down and tear
across the front and pull it open, and as you do,
there immediately glowing from underneath, you see
the yellow sphere giving off a faint aura of
light.
TRAVIS: Can I reach for it?
MATT: I'll let you do that, yeah.
TRAVIS: I take it.
MATT: You take it.
SAM: Put it in your belly!
LAURA: Eat it! Put it in your butt!
TRAVIS: Can I do anything else with it?
MATT: I'll say, for the time being there is no
immediate threat. Dashilla has fled. You can
continue to search for her, if you'd like.
LAURA: No, I want to go back and get that money
that she's got. No?
MATT: Okay, but for the time being, Dashilla has
not-- at least, for the time being.
TALIESIN: I'd rather not have this.
LIAM: So my held Magic Missile fizzles because
time passes, right?
MATT: It does.
MARISHA: I don't know that yet, I'm going to keep
looking for her over here.
MATT: Okay. You continue to move into the next
area.
TALIESIN: I don't feel okay with you being alone.
MARISHA: I'm hauling ass.
SAM: I'm still going with her.
MATT: You scoot around the area. Beau, you start
moving through in this vicinity.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm, looking for anything.
MATT: Nott, you doing the same?
SAM: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: I'm going to do the same.
MATT: Nott, you're not as fast as her, so you're
falling a bit behind. Actually, no, you can do all
three with your bonus action. Well, you both can,
just in case you want to spend ki points.
MARISHA: Nah, not now.
LIAM: I have a question to you, when you've done
that.
MATT: Yes?
LIAM: Back in the chamber, Detect Magic is still
up. Does Caleb see anything with an arcane glow in
this room other than what Fjord picked up?
MATT: Only the aura from the table.
LIAM: So none of the shit around the edges, okay.
I guess I will start studying the runes on the
walls to see how they contribute to this mystery.
MATT: Okay, make an arcana check.
LIAM: This gets the d4?
TALIESIN: Checks, no. Saves and attacks.
LIAM: 14.
MATT: It's hard to pick up the details of these
particular runes. They seem of a similar age as
the ones you saw on the table, but it's not the same
enchantment. You pick up that they are placed
there for some reason, but you're unable to
ascertain what it is, unfortunately.
LIAM: On a whim, I'm going to use a 2nd-level
spell slot to cast Comprehend Language instantly
to see if anything becomes clearer, and I have to
touch the table and touch the walls to do that.
MATT: Right, okay. It is not a language, per se.
These aren't passages or language being
transmitted; these are runes of some kind.
They are used to channel something.
They may or may not be connected to the
table altar in the center.
LIAM: What are we doing here, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Can I hold up the sphere in one hand and
the falchion in the other?
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Do they react to each other?
MATT: They both get brighter.
TRAVIS: Can I try and hold the sphere to my
chest?
MATT: Yes, you may. As you take the sphere and
press it to your chest, your eyes suddenly flash
images of black, sub-ocean darkness, the same
place your dreams have brought you over and over again, and
that bright yellow light emerges, breaking the
shadow, and there you see the yellow eye with two
more on the sides of it. You see the endless row
of teeth that curves into the smile-- and the
flash is gone, and you look down and your hand is
empty. The rest of you watched this thing
momentarily seem to become either ethereal or it
is absorbed into Fjord's chest. You look at the
sword, and now there's the eye in the hilt and the
eye in the pommel.
LAURA: That's tight!
TRAVIS: Ooh, hotness! Mmm. Let's kill this bitch
and get the fuck out of here.
LAURA: Do we need to kill her? You have what you
came for.
TRAVIS: Sure, we can let her go.
LIAM: We should go, she's not going to follow us
to the surface.
LAURA: Let's get some platinum before we leave
though, what, what?
TRAVIS: This pedestal, are we going to just leave
it?
LAURA: What difference does it make?
LIAM: What are your goals? Your goal is, what,
to--?
TRAVIS: I was only curious about the orb, but it
just seems so--
LIAM: You know what Avantika talked about, you
know what she wanted. You think this has nothing
to do with that?
TRAVIS: The temple I was in before had a recessed
spot for the sphere. That just seems like a rune
right, like a symbol?
LIAM: Yeah, but if that was some sort of lock, you
want to put the key in that lock?
TRAVIS: No.
LIAM: Do you feel any different?
TRAVIS: I do not. Yeah, we can get out of here.
Just, on our guard as we go.
LAURA: Yeah, on our guard, of course.
MATT: While you're beginning to initiate the
looting process, what are you doing, Caduceus?
TALIESIN: I am basically holding ready to shoot a
bolt at anything that moves, and I was actually
hanging a little bit far down just in case one of
them drops, I can heal, and somewhere where I'm
not going to get attacked by kelp and I'm keeping
very aware.
MATT: Okay. Well, you were staying over in this
chamber with them. Nott and Beau, you are in the
central chamber now. Do you want to search for the
possible whereabouts of Dashilla?
MARISHA: I want to look around and then I want to
head towards that alcove back there.
SAM: I'm following to make sure she's okay.
MARISHA: I technically haven't heard shit.
MATT: Both of you make perception checks.
TRAVIS: Yeah, no, you're right, you haven't.
SAM: Five.
MARISHA: 21. 22. 19.
MATT: All right. As you turn around the corner and
you edge in here, you see movement behind the
seaweed, using it as a blanket and a shield.
MARISHA: In this corridor or in the central
chamber?
MATT: Where you're looking, you see it move this
direction. You're not sure which path, but
Dashilla is still present it seems, or something
moving through the seaweed as a cover, behind it
like a curtain. Which path do you choose?
MARISHA: I turn to Nott and say: Are we still
fighting this thing?
SAM: What? I don't see anything. Where?
MARISHA: She's this way! I move that way.
MATT: Which way?
MARISHA: Towards wherever I saw her.
MATT: You saw her move in the direction of this
fork.
MARISHA: Of this side fork, right?
MATT: This side? You saw her move in this
direction, you saw it move through.
MARISHA: Oh.
SAM: Just pick one.
MARISHA: I'll take the right.
MATT: Take the right? Okay. You move through, and
you're following?
SAM: Yes.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: As I go, I take out my wire and I point and I
whisper a message to Caleb: We went back to the
left fork but then we went right.
LIAM: Wrapping up in here.
MATT: As you come around the corner, you see an
old, decomposing pile of merrow corpses similar to
the ones that were tied up inside, but these all
have these wounds of their throats slit from side
to side.
MARISHA: Oh, sacrifice style.
MATT: They're all in various states of
decomposition, the freshest one maybe months ago,
and the sea has caused its own unique form of
bloating and sloughing off of the various parts of
the skeleton.
MARISHA: Gross.
SAM: Is she in here? Do we see any movement?
MATT: You can make another perception check.
TALIESIN: I would have made my way a little bit
further.
MARISHA: All of us?
SAM: 11.
MARISHA: Ooh, that was almost a natural 20.
Instead, it's a five!
MATT: Glancing inside and taking a moment to
really look around, there's no other movement.
SAM: Other way?
MARISHA: Sure.
MATT: You guys shift around.
SAM: Cast a quick message: We went on the other
one now.
MATT: As you turn around to the other side, there
you see standing there, another pale, gaunt spirit
looking right at you.
MARISHA: Go fuck a ghost! I punch it.
LIAM: I'm going to go fuck a ghost!
TRAVIS: Who runs in a haunted house now? That's
fucking amazing.
MATT: Beauregard, doing probably one of my
favorite things she's ever done in this entire
campaign, just runs up to fucking punch a ghost.
Go for it.
LIAM: Too slow, shit stain!
MARISHA: That's cocked. Not good. It's 11.
MATT: 11 just hits.
LIAM: Ghost puncher!
MARISHA: (singing) Ghost puncher!
TALIESIN: Puncher of ghosts.
MARISHA: It's terrible! Five.
MATT: Five points of damage, okay.
MARISHA: Okay, second attack. Same thing, 11.
Another five damage!
MATT: Another five damage, okay.
MARISHA: Dj vu.
MATT: You still have your bonus action.
MARISHA: I'm going to punch him again.
LIAM: You're hitting his pressure points.
MARISHA: It hits.
TRAVIS: What the fuck? All three ones on her d6s.
SAM: That's another five.
MATT: 15 points of damage. You punch the shit out
of a ghost. Now, because I believe at level seven
you have the capability of--
MARISHA: To punch ghosts.
MATT: To punch ghosts!
MARISHA: I can punch ghosts now. My fists are
magical.
MATT: With each punch, you watch as the somewhat
spectral glow scatters at each impact, and as she
pulls back there are three holes in its form where
the fists passed through. The ghost, which was
normally just staring, goes (ghastly groan) in
surprise.
TALIESIN: I can see this happen right?
MARISHA: I know, I go: Caduceus!
TALIESIN: Sacred Flame.
MATT: That is a three.
TALIESIN: That's ten points of radiant damage.
MATT: All righty. Nott, are you doing anything?
SAM: Is the ghost still alive?
MATT: Ghost is still alive, yeah.
SAM: I will fire at this ghost.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Not great, 12-- no, 14.
MATT: 14 hits, roll damage. It is adjacent to Beau
so you get sneak attack on the ghost.
LAURA: That's really good. Jesus.
SAM: 29.
MATT: It dissipates. You watch as its glow
vanishes. This horrible low, dull, vibrating sigh
slowly goes away and it's no more and he's
immaterial.
SAM: You punched that ghost really well.
TALIESIN: I'm staying right at them and I'm
looking for any movement while all this is happening.
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: Can we go deeper into that chamber? Searching
for movement?
MATT: Both of you guys make perception checks.
TALIESIN: 23.
SAM: Six.
MARISHA: 17.
MATT: Okay. You don't see any movement in that
corner. You do, looking inside, see in the far
back a small hole maybe two inches across where
the base of it-- of the small alcove-- ends. You
hear voices.
MARISHA: What?
SAM: There's a passage.
LAURA: You can see through to the other side!
SAM: It's only two inches wide?
MATT: It's about two inches wide.
SAM: I'll go over to it and say: Hey guys, can you
hear us?
MATT: As you're looting the place, you hear these
voices.
LAURA: Oh, Nott? Is that you?
SAM: Yeah. We're in a hole.
LAURA: Are you okay?
SAM: Yeah, we're fine.
LAURA: Did you kill the thing?
SAM: No, we lost her.
LAURA: Oh, well I'm getting some treasure.
SAM: Save some for me!
TRAVIS: I'll turn to Caleb and say: Listen, this
is more your thing than mine, but aren't you at
least curious about what this pedestal does?
LIAM: Yeah, I have some ideas and I am curious,
but I want to know what you intend. These come in
threes, yeah?
TRAVIS: Yeah, I don't think it has anything to do
with the sphere; it's not like the lock or the
temple that I saw before. The top of this pedestal
is covered in rust?
LIAM: No.
TRAVIS: Blood?
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Aren't you the least bit curious what a
little drippy-drip might do?
(background music)
LIAM: I'm always curious. Can I count on you to
return the favor?
TRAVIS: Always.
LIAM: (slicing) (slamming)
MATT: Okay. You suffer three points of damage. As
you place your hand down on it, you see this dull
red glow around the hand that's placed on the
table. As you begin to pull your hand up and look,
the runes where the blood has splattered have
begun to give a faint glow.
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: Has anything changed with the ones on the
walls?
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: Okay. I've rolled ass all night, and a
natural 20.
MATT: You glance over and you can see a faint,
matching, dull red glow on one of the runes across
the way, just barely peeking through some of the
gently shifting seaweed. Looking down at this
table, you need a lot of blood to continue to do
this.
LAURA: No. You'll kill yourself!
MARISHA: We saw a pile of corpses!
TRAVIS: I put my--
MATT: How much damage are you willing to take,
guys?
LIAM: About nine more.
TRAVIS: I'll take 20.
SAM: (groans)
MARISHA: What are you fucking doing, lopping off
your arm?
MATT: As you guys begin carving into your hands--
LAURA: What are you-- why?!
TRAVIS: Just trying to provoke some chance here.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds as they're
hurting themselves.
MATT: Okay. The blood clouds the water around you,
and then you watch as it is drawn like a magnet to
the tabletop. As it begins to sit itself in, each
of the runes begins to pull in with each one
glowing, another rune and the rune (low sounds).
It's almost full, the table isn't there yet. You
have about two-thirds to three-quarters or so. The
room itself now is beginning to generally have a
red hue to it as each of these runes is beginning
to fill the area.
TALIESIN: (whispering) This is such a bad idea.
LAURA: To you, Caleb, six points.
LIAM: Thank you.
LAURA: 12 points healed to you, Fjord.
TRAVIS: Okay. Is there a chance that we're giving
this to her?
LIAM: I'm following your lead here. This is your
quest. I have things that I need to do that are
not here, and I am going to need help.
TRAVIS: I understand. I think we're good. We can
go.
SAM: Damn it.
LIAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: We understand each other. Cut palm to cut
palm.
SAM: (whispering) Blood brothers, so cool.
TRAVIS: I'll start to head out of the chamber.
LIAM: I follow Fjord out.
MARISHA: Nott and I meet the rest of them.
LAURA: I'm going to try to get as much platinum
and stuff as I can before I walk out.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TALIESIN: I am just waiting for something to
move.
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Ten. Nine. But there were piles of shiny
things.
MATT: I know. You gather in pocket, and counting
it later, you will find that you have found
roughly three platinum, six gold, 12 silver, and
about 65 copper.
SAM: Boo.
TALIESIN: I don't like this place.
LAURA: All right. I'll follow them out. I'll tap
Yasha: We should get out of here.
MATT: She's got an uncomfortable look on her face
after watching all this transpire, goes, "Yeah. I
"think we better should."
LAURA: I didn't like it either, Yasha.
MATT: Her brow tenses and she follows you out. As
you all converge towards the central chamber once more--
LAURA: The guards are floating, following us.
MATT: As you're walking, some of the seaweed
reaches out and the unicorns (fizzle). It lasts
for ten minutes, right? As you approach they
eventually flitter out. You all gather there at
the entrance.
TALIESIN: Are we out of the cavern now?
MATT: Are you all backing out of the cavern?
LIAM: Looking out for this hag as we go, yeah.
MATT: Okay. For those who haven't rolled
perception checks on this, which I think would be
Jester, Caleb, and Fjord, go ahead and roll for
me. And Yasha.
LAURA: 16.
LIAM: Oh. Still terrible. Ten.
TRAVIS: 18. Yasha rolled a seven.
MATT: No sign of movement. No idea where she is.
TALIESIN: We're going to back out slowly, get out
of this cavern. Does everyone want to meet me
right-- once we can see the surface of the water?
MARISHA and TRAVIS: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: Are we there? We done?
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: (snapping) Water Walk.
SAM: What's that?
TALIESIN: We are going to jet to the surface of
the water. It's 60 feet around.
MATT: Thanks to the glory of magic, we're not
going to deal with decompression in the bloodstream.
TRAVIS: Plus, there's water.
MATT: Instant TPK.
TRAVIS: It's not air. It's water.
MATT: Well, the magic is pulling-- Yeah, it's
fine! Magic handwave. It'd be the saddest-- Smash
cut to the outside of the Squalleater.
TRAVIS: (choking, bursting)
MATT: It's all just the end of Total Recall, right
there in the middle of the ocean.
TALIESIN: It wouldn't be a pressure thing because
we have water in us anyway.
MATT: I know. I'm saying through the magic, it all
works out fine. As you guys all swim out of the
cavern, the spell happens. With immense speed, you
all start firing towards the surface (splashing)
with enough force that when you surface, you all
lift a few feet out and then land. Some of you
stumble, but you hit the surface of the water, and
it feels like ground.
TALIESIN: Let's walk to the ship.
TRAVIS: We were hundreds of feet under water.
TALIESIN: That's why I made sure to pack some
stuff, just in case. Let's get out of here. That
place gives me the creeps.
LAURA: And Dashilla lives to keep being a legend.
TALIESIN: To keep pouring blood on, well...
LAURA: That's true.
MARISHA: I am deeply curious as to what the fuck
happened.
MATT: You guys can see the Squalleater is a bit of
a hike from where you currently are from where
you've traveled, but it is visible as there is no
other landmass on the horizon.
TALIESIN: We'll be moving at twice speed since
it's normal speed and not our halved speed.
MATT: Correct.
TRAVIS: Outstanding.
LAURA: I feel like I'm walking on jello, but I
like it.
TALIESIN: You ever see those videos with the
(tapping) walking on the pudding. Like that.
MATT: You guys make your way towards the
Squalleater, hail your team, and are brought back
onto the ship. The sails are unfurled. As Orly
turns to you, he goes, "Where we going, Captain?"
TRAVIS: Make for the... Gravid Archipelago?
MATT: Gravid Archipelago, all righty.
SAM: That's not where we were going before.
MATT: "Aye, aye."
TRAVIS: Sure it is.
SAM: I thought we were going to the other place--
MATT: You're not there.
SAM: Oh, okay.
MATT: The ship unfurls the functional sails on it
and slowly limps its way in the direction of the
archipelago. You travel for a good hour or so
before you notice the sky that was somewhat
cloudy, begin to go rapidly darker, roughly near
where you were. The clouds begin to swell and
release rain. It begins to rain on your ship, but
you begin to push away from this mounting storm.
LAURA: She can control the weather?
MATT: You get the sense that whatever ritual you
began, once she felt safe, she had completed and a
new storm is being summoned over the Diver's
Grave.
TRAVIS: Oh shit. We could have sunk our ship.
MARISHA: You would have sunk our ship.
TRAVIS: We would have been walking for a long
time!
MARISHA: All of that, as to why are there are
fucking ships at the bottom of the ocean.
MATT: At least there would have been a hell of a
skill challenge to get the Squalleater out of the
center of that storm. As you barely skirt the
outside of this growing storm with enough
foresight and speed to not be caught in the brunt
of it, we'll end tonight's game.
TRAVIS: As a point of order, you were right, we
were supposed to head here to fix the ship first.
I want to do that because we've got a fucked up
ship.
SAM: No, you do whatever you want to do. You're
the captain.
TRAVIS: I'll say we'll go to the Bisaft Isle.
MATT: Bisaft Isle to get repairs done?
MARISHA: I thought you were just blind with
power.
LAURA: Yeah, I thought you were doing it on
purpose.
MARISHA: Like, (clapping) fuck that!
TRAVIS: No, I want to repair the ship.
LIAM: I would assume that next game, we're going
to start with a fresh day, so I want to toss in
that Caleb goes to whatever chamber they're in and
he pulls out the other book from his holsters and
he writes for hours.
MATT: All right. We'll pick up there next week,
and we'll have a guest next week.
SAM: Oh, what?
MATT: Yeah, excited. We'll be having Deborah Ann
Woll joining us--
(noises of excitement)
MATT: Three years in the making, I think it is?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: At least two. Excited she's going to be
joining us, and we'll pick up this next thread of
the story. Well done, guys! That was fun and
Dashilla survived!
LAURA: Dashilla survived!
MARISHA: You monsters!
TRAVIS: That would have been a thing if we had
gotten up and it was like all stormy, and we were
like (high-pitched) "Where's the boat?"
MATT: Yeah, if that had happened while you guys
got out of the cave, you would have looked up and
that sunlight was much darker, and it would have
been you start seeing the shifting in the
tumultuous surface and be like, "Oh, no."
TRAVIS: Hey, man, I have been ordered to provoke
every once in a while.
MATT: Sometimes you got to poke the badger, and I
respect that.
LIAM: I came out of that with a favor.
TRAVIS and MATT: You did.
MATT: All right, we'll pick that up next week.
Once again, fantastic job on the intro and Kami
and Kevin and everyone involved with the music. It
was such a great job. I'm so happy with how that
turned out. Thank you for joining us tonight, we
love you, and is it Thursday yet? Good night.
(cheering)
(no audio)
[water bubbling]
[thunder]
[explosion]
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
[dramatic Critical Role theme]
LAURA: Roll the dice! (singing) The adventure
begins, they were always beside you, your nerdy
best friends, and the DM to guide you. And they
rise from the flames for the battles ahead.
Villains beware 'cause you're 'bout to be dead.
ASHLEY: (singing) They got magic and flair, they
got falchions and cunning. They don't see over
there there's a monster incoming. Inspiration is
waiting, rise up, don't think twice. Put your fate
in your hands, take a chance, roll the dice!
(chanting) Role! Critical! Role!
ASHLEY and LAURA: (singing) Can you answer the
call? Dig in deep in your soul as the legend
unfolds. Now it's your turn to roll!
[fire burning]
[music]